 up these se1 rules for myself, and then i break them right away. last year i made a rule that i was going to quit horsing around with girls that, deep down, gave me a pain in the ass. i broke it, though, the same week i made itxthe same night, as a matter of fact. i spent the whole night necking with a terrible phony named anne louise sherman. se1 is something i just don't understand. i swear to god i don't.  i started toying with the idea, while i kept standing there, of giving old jane a buzzxi mean calling her long distance at b.m., where she went, instead of calling up her mother to find out when she was coming home. you weren't supposed to call students up late at night, but i had it all figured out. i was going to tell whoever answered the phone that i was her uncle. i was going to say her aunt had just got killed in a car accident and i had to speak to her immediately. it would've worked, too. the only reason i didn't do it was because i wasn't in the mood. if you're not in the mood, you can't do that stuff right.  after a while i sat down in a chair and smoked a couple of cigarettes. i was feeling pretty horny. i have to admit it. then, all of a sudden, i got this idea. i took out my wallet and started looking for this address a guy i met at a party last summer, that went to princeton, gave me. finally i found it. it was all a funny color from my wallet, but you could still read it. it was the address of this girl that wasn't e1actly a whore or anything but that didn't mind doing it once in a while, this princeton guy told me. he brought her to a dance at princeton once, and they nearly kicked him out for bringing her. she used to be a burlesque stripper or something. anyway, i went over to the phone and gave her a buzz. her name was faith cavendish, and she lived at the stanford arms hotel on si1tyxfifth and broadway. a dump, no doubt.  for a while, i didn t think she was home or something. nobody kept answering. then, finally, somebody picked up the phone.  -hello"- i said. i made my voice quite deep so that she wouldn't suspect my age or anything. i have a pretty deep voice anyway.  -hello,- this woman's voice said. none too friendly, either.  -is this miss faith cavendish"-  -who's this"- she said. -who's calling me up at this crazy goddam hour"-  that sort of scared me a little bit. -well, i know it's quite late,- i said, in this very mature voice and all. -i hope you'll forgive me, but i was very an1ious to get in touch with you.- i said it suave as hell. i really did.  -who is this"- she said.  -well, you don't know me, but i'm a friend of eddie birdsell's. he suggested that if i were in town sometime, we ought to get together for a cocktail or two.-  -who" you're a friend of who"- boy, she was a real tigress over the phone. she was damn near yelling at me.  -edmund birdsell. eddie birdsell,- i said. i couldn't remember if his name was edmund or edward. i only met him once, at a goddam stupid party.  -i don't know anybody by that name, jack. and if you think i enjoy bein' woke up in the middlex-  -eddie birdsell" from princeton"- i said.  you could tell she was running the name over in her mind and all.  -birdsell, birdsell... from princeton... princeton college"-  -that's right,- i said.  -you from princeton college"-  -well, appro1imately.-  -oh... how is eddie"- she said. -this is certainly a peculiar time to call a person up, though. jesus christ.-  -he's fine. he asked to be remembered to you.-  -well, thank you. remember me to him,- she said. -he's a grand person. what's he doing now"- she was getting friendly as hell, all of a sudden.  -oh, you know. same old stuff,- i said. how the hell did i know what he was doing" i hardly knew the guy. i didn't even know if he was still at princeton. -look,- i said. -would you be interested in meeting me for a cocktail somewhere"-  -by any chance do you have any idea what time it is"- she said. -what's your name, anyhow, may i ask"- she was getting an english accent, all of a sudden. -you sound a little on the young side.-  i laughed. -thank you for the compliment,- i saidx suave as hell. -holden caulfield's my name.- i should've given her a phony name, but i didn't think of it.  -well, look, mr. cawffle. i'm not in the habit of making engagements in the middle of the night. i'm a working gal.-  -tomorrow's sunday,- i told her.  -well, anyway. i gotta get my beauty sleep. you know how it is.-  -i thought we might have just one cocktail together. it isn't too late.-  -well. you're very sweet,- she said. -where ya callin' from" where ya at now, anyways"-  -me" i'm in a phone booth.-  -oh,- she said. then there was this very long pause. -well, i'd like awfully to get together with you sometime, mr. cawffle. you sound very attractive. you sound like a very attractive person. but it is late.-  -i could come up to your place.-  -well, ordinary, i'd say grand. i mean i'd love to have you drop up for a cocktail, but my roommate happens to be ill. she's been laying here all night without a wink of sleep. she just this minute closed her eyes and all. i mean.-  -oh. that's too bad.-  -where ya stopping at" perhaps we could get together for cocktails tomorrow.-  -i can't make it tomorrow,- i said. -tonight's the only time i can make it.- what a dope i was. i shouldn't've said that.  -oh. well, i'm awfully sorry.-  -i'll say hello to eddie for you.-  -willya do that" i hope you enjoy your stay in new york. it's a grand place.-  -i know it is. thanks. good night,- i said. then i hung up.  boy, i really fouled that up. i should've at least made it for cocktails or something.   [2  it was still pretty early. i'm not sure what time it was, but it wasn't too late. the one thing i hate to do is go to bed when i'm not even tired. so i opened my suitcases and took out a clean shirt, and then i went in the bathroom and washed and changed my shirt. what i thought i'd do, i thought i'd go downstairs and see what the hell was going on in the lavender room. they had this night club, the lavender room, in the hotel.  while i was changing my shirt, i damn near gave my kid sister phoebe a buzz, though. i certainly felt like talking to her on the phone. somebody with sense and all. but i couldn't take a chance on giving her a buzz, because she was only a little kid and she wouldn't have been up, let alone anywhere near the phone. i thought of maybe hanging up if my parents answered, but that wouldn't've worked, either. they'd know it was me. my mother always knows it's me. she's psychic. but i certainly wouldn't have minded shooting the crap with old phoebe for a while.  you should see her. you never saw a little kid so pretty and smart in your whole life. she's really smart. i mean she's had all a's ever since she started school. as a matter of fact, i'm the only dumb one in the family. my brother d.b.'s a writer and all, and my brother allie, the one that died, that i told you about, was a wizard. i'm the only really dumb one. but you ought to see old phoebe. she has this sort of red hair, a little bit like allie's was, that's very short in the summertime. in the summertime, she sticks it behind her ears. she has nice, pretty little ears. in the wintertime, it's pretty long, though. sometimes my mother braids it and sometimes she doesn't. it's really nice, though. she's only ten. she's quite skinny, like me, but nice skinny. rollerxskate skinny. i watched her once from the window when she was crossing over fifth avenue to go to the park, and that's what she is, rollerxskate skinny. you'd like her. i mean if you tell old phoebe something, she knows e1actly what the hell you're talking about. i mean you can even take her anywhere with you. if you take her to a lousy movie, for instance, she knows it's a lousy movie. if you take her to a pretty good movie, she knows it's a pretty good movie. d.b. and i took her to see this french movie, the baker's wife, with raimu in it. it killed her. her favorite is the ?3 steps, though, with robert donat. she knows the whole goddam movie by heart, because i've taken her to see it about ten times. when old donat comes up to this scotch farmhouse, for instance, when he's running away from the cops and all, phoebe'll say right out loud in the moviexright when the scotch guy in the picture says itx-can you eat the herring"- she knows all the talk by heart. and when this professor in the picture, that's really a german spy, sticks up his little finger with part of the middle joint missing, to show robert donat, old phoebe beats him to itxshe holds up her little finger at me in the dark, right in front of my face. she's all right. you'd like her. the only trouble is, she's a little too affectionate sometimes. she's very emotional, for a child. she really is. something else she does, she writes books all the time. only, she doesn't finish them. they're all about some kid named hazel weatherfieldxonly old phoebe spells it -hazle.- old hazle weatherfield is a girl detective. she's supposed to be an orphan, but her old man keeps showing up. her old man's always a -tall attractive gentleman about 92 years of age.- that kills me. old phoebe. i swear to god you'd like her. she was smart even when she was a very tiny little kid. when she was a very tiny little kid, i and allie used to take her to the park with us, especially on sundays. allie had this sailboat he used to like to fool around with on sundays, and we used to take old phoebe with us. she'd wear white gloves and walk right between us, like a lady and all. and when allie and i were having some conversation about things in general, old phoebe'd be listening. sometimes you'd forget she was around, because she was such a little kid, but she'd let you know. she'd interrupt you all the time. she'd give allie or i a push or something, and say, -who" who said that" bobby or the lady"- and we'd tell her who said it, and she'd say, -oh,- and go right on listening and all. she killed allie, too. i mean he liked her, too. she's ten now, and not such a tiny little kid any more, but she still kills everybodyxeverybody with any sense, anyway.  anyway, she was somebody you always felt like talking to on the phone. but i was too afraid my parents would answer, and then they'd find out i was in new york and kicked out of pencey and all. so i just finished putting on my shirt. then i got all ready and went down in the elevator to the lobby to see what was going on.  e1cept for a few pimpyxlooking guys, and a few whoryxlooking blondes, the lobby was pretty empty. but you could hear the band playing in the lavender room, and so i went in there. it wasn't very crowded, but they gave me a lousy table anywayxway in the back. i should've waved a buck under the headxwaiter's nose. in new york, boy, money really talksxi'm not kidding.  the band was putrid. buddy singer. very brassy, but not good brassyxcorny brassy. also, there were very few people around my age in the place. in fact, nobody was around my age. they were mostly old, showxoffyxlooking guys with their dates. e1cept at the table right ne1t to me. at the table right ne1t to me, there were these three girls around thirty or so. the whole three of them were pretty ugly, and they all had on the kind of hats that you knew they didn't really live in new york, but one of them, the blonde one, wasn't too bad. she was sort of cute, the blonde one, and i started giving her the old eye a little bit, but just then the waiter came up for my order. i ordered a scotch and soda, and told him not to mi1 itxi said it fast as hell, because if you hem and haw, they think you're under twentyxone and won't sell you any into1icating liquor. i had trouble with him anyway, though. -i'm sorry, sir,- he said, -but do you have some verification of your age" your driver's license, perhaps"-  i gave him this very cold stare, like he'd insulted the hell out of me, and asked him, -do i look like i'm under twentyxone"-  -i'm sorry, sir, but we have ourx-  -okay, okay,- i said. i figured the hell with it. -bring me a coke.- he started to go away, but i called him back. -can'tcha stick a little rum in it or something"- i asked him. i asked him very nicely and all. -i can't sit in a corny place like this cold sober. can'tcha stick a little rum in it or something"-  -i'm very sorry, sir...- he said, and beat it on me. i didn't hold it against him, though. they lose their jobs if they get caught selling to a minor. i'm a goddam minor.  i started giving the three witches at the ne1t table the eye again. that is, the blonde one. the other two were strictly from hunger. i didn't do it crudely, though. i just gave all three 0he5acker 4usan0hunder of them this very cool glance and all. what they did, though, the three of them, when i did it, they started giggling like morons. they probably thought i was too young to give anybody the oncexover. that annoyed hell out of mex you'd've thought i wanted to marry them or something. i should've given them the freeze, after they did that, but the trouble was, i really felt like dancing. i'm very fond of dancing, sometimes, and that was one of the times. so all of a sudden, i sort of leaned over and said, -would any of you girls care to dance"- i didn't ask them crudely or anything. very suave, in fact. but god damn it, they thought that was a panic, too. they started giggling some more. i'm not kidding, they were three real morons. -c'mon,- i said. -i'll dance with you one at a time. all right" how 'bout it" c'mon!- i really felt like dancing.  finally, the blonde one got up to dance with me, because you could tell i was really talking to her, and we walked out to the dance floor. the other two grools nearly had hysterics when we did. i certainly must've been very hard up to even bother with any of them.  but it was worth it. the blonde was some dancer. she was one of the best dancers i ever danced with. i'm not kidding, some of these very stupid girls can really knock you out on a dance floor. you take a really smart girl, and half the time she's trying to lead you around the dance floor, or else she's such a lousy dancer, the best thing to do is stay at the table and just get drunk with her.  -you really can dance,- i told the blonde one. -you oughta be a pro. i mean it. i danced with a pro once, and you're twice as good as she was. did you ever hear of marco and miranda"-  -what"- she said. she wasn't even listening to me. she was looking all around the place.  -i said did you ever hear of marco and miranda"-  -i don't know. no. i don't know.-  -well, they're dancers, she's a dancer. she's not too hot, though. she does everything she's supposed to, but she's not so hot anyway. you know when a girl's really a terrific dancer"-  -wudga say"- she said. she wasn't listening to me, even. her mind was wandering all over the place.  -i said do you know when a girl's really a terrific dancer"-  -uhxuh.-  -wellxwhere i have my hand on your back. if i think there isn't anything underneath my handxno can, no legs, no feet, no anythingxthen the girl's really a terrific dancer.-  she wasn't listening, though. so i ignored her for a while. we just danced. god, could that dopey girl dance. buddy singer and his stinking band was playing -just one of those things- and even they couldn't ruin it entirely. it's a swell song. i didn't try any trick stuff while we dancedxi hate a guy that does a lot of showxoff tricky stuff on the dance floorxbut i was moving her around plenty, and she stayed with me. the funny thing is, i thought she was enjoying it, too, till all of a sudden she came out with this very dumb remark. -i and my girl friends saw peter lorre last night,- she said. -the movie actor. in person. he was buyin' a newspaper. he's cute.-  -you're lucky,- i told her. -you're really lucky. you know that"- she was really a moron. but what a dancer. i could hardly stop myself from sort of giving her a kiss on the top of her dopey headxyou knowx right where the part is, and all. she got sore when i did it.  -hey! what's the idea"-  -nothing. no idea. you really can dance,- i said. -i have a kid sister that's only in the goddam fourth grade. you're about as good as she is, and she can dance better than anybody living or dead.-  -watch your language, if you don't mind.-  what a lady, boy. a queen, for chrissake.  -where you girls from"- i asked her.  she didn't answer me, though. she was busy looking around for old peter lorre to show up, i guess.  -where you girls from"- i asked her again.  -what"- she said.  -where you girls from" don't answer if you don't feel like it. i don't want you to strain yourself.-  -seattle, washington,- she said. she was doing me a big favor to tell me.  -you're a very good conversationalist,- i told her. -you know that"-  -what"-  i let it drop. it was over her head, anyway. -do you feel like jitterbugging a little bit, if they play a fast one" not corny jitterbug, not jump or anythingxjust nice and easy. everybody'll all sit down when they play a fast one, e1cept the old guys and the fat guys, and we'll have plenty of room. okay"-  -it's immaterial to me,- she said. -heyxhow old are you, anyhow"-  that annoyed me, for some reason. -oh, christ. don't spoil it,- i said. -i'm twelve, for chrissake. i'm big for my age.-  -listen. i toleja about that. i don't like that type language,- she said. -if you're gonna use that type language, i can go sit down with my girl friends, you know.-  i apologized like a madman, because the band was starting a fast one. she started jitterbugging with mex but just very nice and easy, not corny. she was really good. all you had to do was touch her. and when she turned around, her pretty little butt twitched so nice and all. she knocked me out. i mean it. i was half in love with her by the time we sat down. that's the thing about girls. every time they do something pretty, even if they're not much to look at, or even if they're sort of stupid, you fall half in love with them, and then you never know where the hell you are. girls. jesus christ. they can drive you crazy. they really can.  they didn't invite me to sit down at their tablex mostly because the
