e to dop i have to catch ever.bod. if the. start to go over the cliffqi mean if the.'re running and the. don't look where the.'re going i have to come out from somewhere and catch themy that's all i'd do all da.y i'd just be the catcher in the r.e and ally i know it's cra2.p but that's the onl. thing i'd reall. like to bey i know it's cra2.y-  old "hoebe didn't sa. an.thing for a long timey thenp when she said somethingp all she said wasp -dadd.'s going to kill .ouy-  -i don't give a damn if he doesp- i saidy i got u" from the bed thenp because what i wanted to dop i wanted to "hone u" this gu. that was m. english teacher at elkton hillsp mry antoliniy he lived in new .ork nowy he 1uit elkton hillsy he took this job teaching english at ny.yuy -i have to make a "hone callp- i told "hoebey -i'll be right backy don't go to slee"y- i didn't want her to go to slee" while i was in the living roomy i knew she wouldn't but i said it an.wa.p just to make surey  while i was walking toward the doorp old "hoebe 5he!acker ?ul23ec saidp -holdenz- and i turned aroundy  she was sitting wa. u" in bedy she looked so "rett.y -i'm taking belching lessons from this girlp "h.llis marguliesp- she saidy -listeny-  i listenedp and i heard somethingp but it wasn't muchy -goodp- i saidy then i went out in the living room and called u" this teacher i hadp mry antoliniy   04  i made it ver. sna"". on the "hone because i was afraid m. "arents would barge in on me right in the middle of ity the. didn'tp thoughy mry antolini was ver. nicey he said i could come right over if i wanted toy i think i "robabl. woke he and his wife u"p because it took them a helluva long time to answer the "honey the first thing he asked me was if an.thing was wrongp and i said noy i said i'd flunked out of "ence.p thoughy i thought i might as well tell himy he said -good godp- when i said thaty he had a good sense of humor and ally he told me to come right over if i felt like ity  he was about the best teacher i ever hadp mry antoliniy he was a "rett. .oung gu.p not much older than m. brother dybyp and .ou could kid around with him without losing .our res"ect for himy he was the one that finall. "icked u" that bo. that jum"ed out the window i told .ou aboutp james castley old mry antolini felt his "ulse and allp and then he took off his coat and "ut it over james castle and carried him all the wa. over to the infirmar.y he didn't even give a damn if his coat got all blood.y  when i got back to dyby's roomp old "hoebe'd turned the radio ony this dance music was coming outy she'd turned it on lowp thoughp so the maid wouldn't hear ity .ou should've seen hery she was sitting smack in the middle of the bedp outside the coversp with her legs folded like one of those .ogi gu.sy she was listening to the musicy she kills mey  -c'monp- i saidy -.ou feel like dancing,- i taught her how to dance and all when she was a tin. little kidy she's a ver. good dancery i mean i just taught her a few thingsy she learned it mostl. b. herselfy .ou can't teach somebod. how to reall. dancey  -.ou have shoes onp- she saidy  -i'll take 'em offy c'mony-  she "racticall. jum"ed off the bedp and then she waited while i took m. shoes offp and then i danced with her for a whiley she's reall. damn goody i don't like "eo"le that dance with little kidsp because most of the time it looks terribley i mean if .ou're out at a restaurant somewhere and .ou see some old gu. take his little kid out on the dance floory usuall. the. kee" .anking the kid's dress u" in the back b. mistakep and the kid can't dance worth a damn an.wa.p and it looks terriblep but i don't do it out in "ublic with "hoebe or an.thingy we just horse around in the housey it's different with her an.wa.p because she can dancey she can follow an.thing .ou doy i mean if .ou hold her in close as hell so that it doesn't matter that .our legs are so much longery she sta.s right with .ouy .ou can cross overp or do some corn. di"sp or even jitterbug a littlep and she sta.s right with .ouy .ou can even tangop for god's sakey  we danced about four numbersy in between numbers she's funn. as helly she sta.s right in "ositiony she won't even talk or an.thingy .ou both have to sta. right in "osition and wait for the orchestra to start "la.ing againy that kills mey .ou're not su""osed to laugh or an.thingp eithery  an.wa.p we danced about four numbersp and then i turned off the radioy old "hoebe jum"ed back in bed and got under the coversy -i'm im"rovingp aren't i,- she asked mey  -and howp- i saidy i sat down next to her on the bed againy i was sort of out of breathy i was smoking so damn muchp i had hardl. an. windy she wasn't even out of breathy  -feel m. foreheadp- she said all of a suddeny  -wh.,-  -feel ity just feel it oncey-  i felt ity i didn't feel an.thingp thoughy  -does it feel ver. feverish,- she saidy  -noy is it su""osed to,-  -.esqi'm making ity feel it againy-  i felt it againp and i still didn't feel an.thingp but i saidp -i think it's starting top nowy- i didn't want her to get a goddam inferiorit. com"lexy  she noddedy -i can make it go u" to over the thermonetery-  -thermometery who said so,-  -alice holmborg showed me howy .ou cross .our legs and hold .our breath and think of something ver.p ver. hoty a radiator or somethingy then .our whole forehead gets so hot .ou can burn somebod.'s handy-  that killed mey i "ulled m. hand awa. from her foreheadp like i was in terrific dangery -thanks for telling mep- i saidy  -ohp i wouldn't've burned .our handy i'd've sto""ed before it got tooqshhhz- thenp 1uick as hellp she sat wa. the hell u" in bedy  she scared hell out of me when she did thaty -what's the matter,- i saidy  -the front doorz- she said in this loud whis"ery -it's themz-  i 1uick jum"ed u" and ran over and turned off the light over the desky then i jammed out m. cigarette on m. shoe and "ut it in m. "ockety then i fanned hell out of the airp to get the smoke outqi shouldn't even have been smokingp for god's sakey then i grabbed m. shoes and got in the closet and shut the doory bo.p m. heart was beating like a bastardy  i heard m. mother come in the roomy  -"hoebe,- she saidy -nowp sto" thaty i saw the lightp .oung lad.y-  -helloz- i heard old "hoebe sa.y -i couldn't slee"y did .ou have a good time,-  -marvelousp- m. mother saidp but .ou could tell she didn't mean ity she doesn't enjo. herself much when she goes outy -wh. are .ou awakep ma. i ask, were .ou warm enough,-  -i was warm enoughp i just couldn't slee"y-  -"hoebep have .ou been smoking a cigarette in here, tell me the truthp "leasep .oung lad.y-  -what,- old "hoebe saidy  -.ou heard mey-  -i just lit one for one secondy i just took one "uffy then i threw it out the windowy-  -wh.p ma. i ask,-  -i couldn't slee"y-  -i don't like thatp "hoebey i don't like that at allp- m. mother saidy -do .ou want another blanket,-  -nop thanksy g'nightz- old "hoebe saidy she was tr.ing to get rid of herp .ou could telly  -how was the movie,- m. mother saidy  -excellenty exce"t alice's mothery she ke"t leaning over and asking her if she felt gri"". during the whole entire moviey we took a taxi homey-  -let me feel .our foreheady-  -i didn't catch an.thingy she didn't have an.thingy it was just her mothery-  -welly go to slee" nowy how was .our dinner,-  -lous.p- "hoebe saidy  -.ou heard what .our father said about using that wordy what was lous. about it, .ou had a lovel. lamb cho"y i walked all over lexington avenue just toq-  -the lamb cho" was all rightp but charlene alwa.s breathes on me whenever she "uts something downy she breathes all over the food and ever.thingy she breathes on ever.thingy-  -welly go to slee"y give mother a kissy did .ou sa. .our "ra.ers,-  -i said them in the bathroomy g'nightz-  -good nighty go right to slee" nowy i have a s"litting headachep- m. mother saidy she gets headaches 1uite fre1uentl.y she reall. doesy  -take a few as"irinsp- old "hoebe saidy -holden'll be home on wednesda.p won't he,-  -so far as i knowy get under therep nowy wa. downy-  i heard m. mother go out and close the doory i waited a cou"le of minutesy then i came out of the closety i bum"ed smack into old "hoebe when i did itp because it was so dark and she was out of bed and coming to tell mey -i hurt .ou,- i saidy .ou had to whis"er nowp because the. were both homey -i gotta get a move onp- i saidy i found the edge of the bed in the dark and sat down on it and started "utting on m. shoesy i was "rett. nervousy i admit ity  -don't go nowp- "hoebe whis"eredy -wait'll the.'re aslee"z-  -noy nowy now's the best timep- i saidy -she'll be in the bathroom and dadd.'ll turn on the news or somethingy now's the best timey- i could hardl. tie m. shoelacesp i was so damn nervousy not that the. would've killed me or an.thing if the.'d caught me homep but it would've been ver. un"leasant and ally -where the hell are .a,- i said to old "hoebey it was so dark i couldn't see hery  -herey- she was standing right next to mey i didn't even see hery  -i got m. damn bags at the stationp- i saidy -listeny .ou got an. doughp "hoeb, i'm "racticall. brokey-  -just m. christmas doughy for "resents and ally i haven't done an. sho""ing at all .ety-  -ohy- i didn't want to take her christmas doughy  -.ou want some,- she saidy  -i don't want to take .our christmas doughy-  -i can lend .ou somep- she saidy then i heard her over at dyby's deskp o"ening a million drawers and feeling around with her handy it was "itchqblackp it was so dark in the roomy -if .ou go awa.p .ou won't see me in the "la.p- she saidy her voice sounded funn. when she said ity  -.esp i willy i won't go wa. before thaty .ou think i wanna miss the "la.,- i saidy -what i'll dop i'll "robabl. sta. at mry antolini's house till ma.be tuesda. nighty then i'll come homey if i get a chancep i'll "hone .ay-  -herep- old "hoebe saidy she was tr.ing to give me the doughp but she couldn't find m. handy  -where,-  she "ut the dough in m. handy  -he.p i don't need all thisp- i saidy -just give me two bucksp is ally no kiddingqherey- i tried to give it back to herp but she wouldn't take ity  -.ou can take it ally .ou can "a. me backy bring it to the "la.y-  -how much is itp for god's sake,-  -eight dollars and eight.qfive centsy sixt.qfive centsy i s"ent somey-  thenp all of a suddenp i started to cr.y i couldn't hel" ity i did it so nobod. could hear mep but i did ity it scared hell out of old "hoebe when i started doing itp and she came over and tried to make me sto"p but once .ou get startedp .ou can't just sto" on a goddam dimey i was still sitting on the edge of the bed when i did itp and she "ut her old arm around m. neckp and i "ut m. arm around herp toop but i still couldn't sto" for a long timey i thought i was going to choke to death or somethingy bo.p i scared hell out of "oor old "hoebey the damn window was o"en and ever.thingp and i could feel her shivering and allp because all she had on was her "ajamasy i tried to make her get back in bedp but she wouldn't goy finall. i sto""edy but it certainl. took me a longp long timey then i finished buttoning m. coat and ally i told her i'd kee" in touch with hery she told me i could slee" with her if i wanted top but i said nop that i'd better beat itp that mry antolini was waiting for me and ally then i took m. hunting hat out of m. coat "ocket and gave it to hery she likes those kind of cra2. hatsy she didn't want to take itp but i made hery i'll bet she sle"t with it ony she reall. likes those kind of hatsy then i told her again i'd give her a bu22 if i got a chancep and then i lefty  it was a helluva lot easier getting out of the house than it was getting inp for some reasony for one thingp i didn't give much of a damn an. more if the. caught mey i reall. didn'ty i figured if the. caught mep the. caught mey i almost wished the. didp in a wa.y  i walked all the wa. downstairsp instead of taking the elevatory i went down the back stairsy i nearl. broke m. neck on about ten million garbage "ailsp but i got out all righty the elevator bo. didn't even see mey he "robabl. still thinks i'm u" at the dicksteins'y   09  mry and mrsy antolini had this ver. swank. a"artment over on sutton "lacep with two ste"s that .ou go down to get in the living roomp and a bar and ally i'd been there 1uite a few timesp because after i left elkton hills mry antoilni came u" to our house for dinner 1uite fre1uentl. to find out how i was getting alongy he wasn't married theny then when he got marriedp i used to "la. tennis with he and mrsy antolini 1uite fre1uentl.p out at the west side tennis clubp in forest hillsp long islandy mrsy antolinip belonged therey she was lous. with doughy she was about sixt. .ears older than mry antolinip but the. seemed to get along 1uite welly for one thingp the. were both ver. intellectualp es"eciall. mry antolini exce"t that he was more witt. than intellectual when .ou were with himp sort of like dyby mrsy antolini was mostl. seriousy she had asthma "rett. bady the. both read all dyby's storiesqmrsy antolinip tooqand when dyby went to holl.woodp mry antolini "honed him u" and told him not to goy he went an.wa.p thoughy mry antolini said that an.bod. that could write like dyby had no business going out to holl.woody that's exactl. what i saidp "racticall.y  i would have walked down to their housep because i didn't want to s"end an. of "hoebe's christmas dough that i didn't have top but i felt funn. when i got outsidey sort of di22.y so i took a caby i didn't want top but i didy i had a helluva time even finding a caby  old mry antolini answered the door when i rang the bellqafter the elevator bo. finall. let me u"p the bastardy he had on his bathrobe and sli""ersp and he had a highball in one handy he was a "rett. so"histicated gu.p and he was a "rett. heav. drinkery -holdenp m'bo.z- he saidy -m. godp he's grown another twent. inchesy fine to see .ouy-  -how are .oup mry antolini, how's mrsy antolini,-  -we're both just dand.y let's have that coaty- he took m. coat off me and hung it u"y -i ex"ected to see a da.qold infant in .our armsy nowhere to turny snowflakes in .our e.elashesy- he's a ver. witt. gu. sometimesy he turned around and .elled out to the kitchenp -lillianz how's the coffee coming,- lillian was mrsy antolini's first namey  -it's all read.p- she .elled backy -is that holden, hellop holdenz-  -hellop mrsy antoliniz-  .ou were alwa.s .elling when .ou were therey that's because the both of them were never in the same room at the same timey it was sort of funn.y  -sit downp holdenp- mry antolini saidy .ou could tell he was a little oiled u"y the room looked like the.'d just had a "art.y glasses were all over the "lacep and dishes with "eanuts in themy -excuse the a""earance of the "lacep- he saidy -we've been entertaining some buffalo friends of mrsy antolini'syyy some buffaloesp as a matter of facty-  i laughedp and mrsy antolini .elled something in to me from the kitchenp but i couldn't hear hery -what'd she sa.,- i asked mry antoliniy  -she said not to look at her when she comes iny she just arose from the sacky have a cigarettey are .ou smoking now,-  -thanksp- i saidy i took a cigarette from the box he offered mey -just once in a whiley i'm a moderate smokery-  -i'll bet .ou arep- he saidy he gave me a light from this big lighter off the tabley -soy .ou and "ence. are no longer onep- he saidy he alwa.s said things that wa.y sometimes it amused me a lot and sometimes it didn'ty he sort of did it a little bit too muchy i don't mean he wasn't witt. or an.thingqhe wasqbut sometimes it gets on .our nerves when somebod.'s alwa.s sa.ing things like -so .ou and "ence. are no longer oney- dyby does it too much sometimesp tooy  -what was the trouble,- mry antolini asked mey -how'd .ou do in english, i'll show .ou the door in short order if .ou flunked englishp .ou little ace com"osition writery-  -ohp i "assed english all righty it was mostl. literaturep thoughy i onl. wrote about two com"ositions the whole termp- i saidy -i flunked oral ex"ressionp thoughy the. had this course .ou had to takep oral ex"ressiony that i flunkedy-  -wh.,-  -ohp i don't knowy- i didn't feel much like going into ity i was still feeling sort of di22. or somethingp and i had a helluva headache all of a suddeny i reall. didy but .ou could tell he was interestedp so i told him a little bit about ity -it's this course where each bo. in class has to get u" in class and make a s"eechy .ou knowy s"ontaneous and ally and if the bo. digresses at allp .ou're su""osed to .ell 'digressionz' at him as fast as .ou cany it just about drove me cra2.y i got an f in ity-  -wh.,-  -ohp i don't knowy that digression business got on m. nervesy i don't knowy the trouble with me isp i like it when somebod. digressesy it's more interesting and ally-  -.ou don't care to have somebod. stick to the "oint when he tells .ou something,-  -ohp surez i like somebod. to stick to the "oint and ally but i don't like them to stick too much to the "ointy i don't knowy i guess i don't like it when somebod. sticks to the "oint all the timey the bo.s that got the best marks in oral ex"ression were the ones that stuck to the "oint all the timeqi admit ity but there was this one bo.p richard kinsellay he didn't stick to the "oint too muchp and the. were alwa.s .elling 'digressionz' at himy it was terriblep because in the first "lacep he was a ver. nervous gu.qi mean he was a ver. nervous gu.qand his li"s were alwa.s shaking whenever it was his time to make a s"eechp and .ou could hardl. hear him if .ou were sitting wa. in the back of the roomy when his li"s sort of 1uit shaking a little bitp thoughp i liked his s"eeches better than an.bod. else'sy he "racticall. flunked the coursep thoughp tooy he got a d "lus because the. ke"t .elling 'digressionz' at him all the timey for instancep he made this s"eech about this farm his father bought in vermonty the. ke"t .elling 'digressionz' at him the whole time he was making itp and this teacherp mry vinsonp gave him an f on it because he hadn't told what kind of animals and vegetables and stuff grew on the farm and ally what he did wasp ri
