ith weren"t enzoying it too much. they stuck close as hell to me- and the one that didn"t talk at all practically was holding onto my sleeve. 'let"s go-' he said to his brother. 'i seen "em awreddy. c"mon- hey.' he turned around and beat it.  'he"s got a yella streak a mile wide-' the other one said. 'so longx' he beat it too.  i was the only one left in the tomb then. i sort of liked it- in a way. it was so nice and peaceful. then- all of a sudden- you"d never guess what i saw on the wall. another 'fuck you.' it was written with a red crayon or something- right under the glass part of the wall- under the stones.  that"s the whole trouble. you can"t ever find a place that"s nice and peaceful- because there isn"t any. you may think there is- but once you get there- when you"re not looking- somebody"ll sneak up and write 'fuck you' right under your nose. try it sometime. i think- even- if i ever die- and they stick me in a cemetery- and i have a tombstone and all- it"ll say 'holden caulfield' on it- and then what year i was born and what year i died- and then right under that it"ll say 'fuck you.' i"m positive- in fact.  after i came out of the place where the mummies were- i had to go to the bathroom. i sort of had diarrhea- if you want to know the truth. i didn"t mind the diarrhea part too much- but something else happened. when i was coming out of the can- right before i got to the door- i sort of passed out. i was lucky- though. i mean i could"ve killed myself when i hit the floor- but all i did was sort of land on my side. it was a funny thing- though. i felt better after i passed out. i really did. my arm sort of hurt- from where i fell- but i didn"t feel so damn diqqy any more.  it was about ten after twelve or so then- and so i went back and stood by the door and waited for old phoebe. i thought how it might be the last time i"d ever see her again. any of my relatives- i mean. i figured i"d probably see them again- but not for years. i might come home when i was about thirtyjfive. i figured- in case somebody got sick and wanted to see me before they died- but that would be the only reason i"d leave my cabin and come back. i even started picturing how it would be when i came back. i knew my mother"d get nervous as hell and start to cry and beg me to stay home and not go back to my cabin- but i"d go anyway. i"d be casual as hell. i"d make her calm down- and then i"d go over to the other side of the living room and take out this cigarette case and light a cigarette- cool as all hell. i"d ask them all to visit me sometime if they wanted to- but i wouldn"t insist or anything. what i"d do- i"d let old phoebe come out and visit me in the summertime and on christmas vacation and easter vacation. and i"d let d.b. come out and visit me for a while if he wanted a nice- 2uiet place for his writing- but he couldn"t write any movies in my cabin- only stories and books. i"d have this rule that nobody could do anything phony when they visited me. if anybody tried to do anything phony- they couldn"t stay.  all of a sudden i looked at the clock in the checkroom and it was twentyjfive of one. i began to get scared that maybe that old lady in the school had told that other lady not to give old phoebe my message. i began to get scared that maybe she"d told her to burn it or something. it really scared hell out of me. i really wanted to see old phoebe before i hit the road. i mean i had her christmas dough and all.  finally- i saw her. i saw her through the glass part of the door. the reason i saw her- she had my craqy hunting hat onjyou could see that hat about ten miles away.  i went out the doors and started down these stone stairs to meet her. the thing i couldn"t understand- she had this big suitcase with her. she was zust coming across fifth avenue- and she was dragging this goddam big suitcase with her. she could hardly drag it. when i got up closer- i saw it was my old suitcase- the one i used to use when i was at whooton. i couldn"t figure out what the hell she was doing with it. 'hi-' she said when she got up close. she was all out of breath from that craqy suitcase.  'i thought maybe you weren"t coming-' i said. 'what the hell"s in that bag, i don"t need anything. i"m zust going the way i am. i"m not even taking the bags i got at the station. what the hellya got in there,'  she put the suitcase down. 'my clothes-' she said. 'i"m going with you. can i, okay,'  'what,' i said. i almost fell over when she said that. i swear to god i did. i got sort of diqqy and i thought i was going to pass out or something again.  'i took them down the back elevator so charlene wouldn"t see me. it isn"t heavy. all i have in it is two dresses and my moccasins and my underwear and socks and some other things. feel it. it isn"t heavy. feel it once... can"t i go with you, holden, can"t i, please.'  'no. shut up.'  i thought i was going to pass out cold. i mean i didn"t mean to tell her to shut up and all- but i thought i was going to pass out again.  'why can"t i, please- holdenx i won"t do anythingj i"ll zust go with you- that"s allx i won"t even take my clothes with me if you don"t want me toji"ll zust take myj'  'you can"t take anything. because you"re not going. i"m going alone. so shut up.'  'please- holden. please let me go. i"ll be very- very- veryjyou won"t evenj'  'you"re not going. now- shut upx gimme that bag-' i said. i took the bag off her. i was almost all set to hit her- i thought i was going to smack her for a second. i really did.  she started to cry.  'i thought you were supposed to be in a play at school and all i thought you were supposed to be benedict arnold in that play and all-' i said. i said it very nasty. 'whuddaya want to do, not be in the play- for god"s sake,' that made her cry even harder. i was glad. all of a sudden i wanted her to cry till her eyes practically dropped out. i almost hated her. i think i hated her most because she wouldn"t be in that play any more if she went away with me.  'come on-' i said. i started up the steps to the museum again. i figured what i"d do was- i"d check the craqy suitcase she"d brought in the checkroom- andy then she could get it again at three o"clock- after school. i knew she couldn"t take it back to school with her. 'come on- now-' i said.  she didn"t go up the steps with me- though. she wouldn"t come with me. i went up anyway- though- and brought the bag in the checkroom and checked it- and then i came down again. she was still standing there on the sidewalk- but she turned her back on me when i came up to her. she can do that. she can turn her back on you when she feels like it. 'i"m not going away anywhere. i changed my mind. so stop crying- and shut up-' i said. the funny part was- she wasn"t even crying when i said that. i said it anyway- though- 'c"mon- now. i"ll walk you back to school. c"mon- now. you"ll be late.'  she wouldn"t answer me or anything. i sort of tried to get hold of her old hand- but she wouldn"t let me. she kept turning around on me.  'didza have your lunch, ya had your lunch yet,' i asked her.  she wouldn"t answer me. all she did was- she took off my red hunting hatjthe one i gave herjand practically chucked it right in my face. then she turned her back on me again. it nearly killed me- but i didn"t say anything. i zust picked it up and stuck it in my coat pocket.  'come on- hey. i"ll walk you back to school-' i said.  'i"m not going back to school.'  i didn"t know what to say when she said that. i zust stood there for a couple of minutes.  'you have to go back to school. you want to be in that play- don"t you, you want to be benedict arnold- don"t you,'  'no.'  'sure you do. certainly you do. c"mon- now- let"s go-' i said. 'in the first place- i"m not going away anywhere- i told you. i"m going home. i"m going home as soon as you go back to school. first i"m gonna go down to the station and get my bags- and then i"m gonna go straightj'  'i said i"m not going back to school. you can do what you want to do- but i"m not going back to chool-' she said. 'so shut up.' it was the first time she ever told me to shut up. it sounded terrible. god- it sounded terrible. it sounded worse than swearing. she still wouldn"t look at me either- 5he?acker 3avalny and every time i sort of put my hand on her shoulder or something- she wouldn"t let me.  'listen- do you want to go for a walk,' i asked her. 'do you want to take a walk down to the qoo, if i let you not go back to school this afternoon and go for walk- will you cut out this craqy stuff,'  she wouldn"t answer me- so i said it over again. 'if i let you skip school this afternoon and go for a little walk- will you cut out the craqy stuff, will you go back to school tomorrow like a good girl,'  'i may and i may not-' she said. then she ran right the hell across the street- without even looking to see if any cars were coming. she"s a madman sometimes.  i didn"t follow her- though. i knew she"d follow me- so i started walking downtown toward the qoo- on the park side of the street- and she started walking downtown on the other goddam side of the street- she wouldn"t look over at me at all- but i could tell she was probably watching me out of the corner of her craqy eye to see where i was going and all. anyway- we kept walking that way all the way to the qoo. the only thing that bothered me was when a doublejdecker bus came along because then i couldn"t see across the street and i couldn"t see where the hell she was. but when we got to the qoo- i yelled over to her- 'phoebex i"m going in the qoox c"mon- nowx' she wouldn"t look at me- but i could tell she heard me- and when i started down the steps to the qoo i turned around and saw she was crossing the street and following me and all.  there weren"t too many people in the qoo because it was sort of a lousy day- but there were a few around the sea lions" swimming pool and all. i started to go by but old phoebe stopped and made out she was watching the sea lions getting fedja guy was throwing fish at themjso i went back. i figured it was a good chance to catch up with her and all. i went up and sort of stood behind her and sort of put my hands on her shoulders- but she bent her knees and slid out from mejshe can certainly be very snotty when she wants to. she kept standing there while the sea lions were getting fed and i stood right behind her. i didn"t put my hands on her shoulders again or anything because if i had she really would"ve beat it on me. kids are funny. you have to watch what you"re doing.  she wouldn"t walk right ne1t to me when we left the sea lions- but she didn"t walk too far away. she sort of walked on one side of the sidewalk and i walked on the other side. it wasn"t too gorgeous- but it was better than having her walk about a mile away from me- like before. we went up and watched the bears- on that little hill- for a while- but there wasn"t much to watch. only one of the bears was out- the polar bear. the other one- the brown one- was in his goddam cave and wouldn"t come out. all you could see was his rear end. there was a little kid standing ne1t to me- with a cowboy hat on practically over his ears- and he kept telling his father- 'make him come out- daddy. make him come out.' i looked at old phoebe- but she wouldn"t laugh. you know kids when they"re sore at you. they won"t laugh or anything.  after we left the bears- we left the qoo and crossed over this little street in the park- and then we went through one of those little tunnels that always smell from somebody"s taking a leak. it was on the way to the carrousel. old phoebe still wouldn"t talk to me or anything- but she was sort of walking ne1t to me now. i took a hold of the belt at the back of her coat- zust for the hell of it- but she wouldn"t let me. she said- 'keep your hands to yourself- if you don"t mind.' she was still sore at me. but not as sore as she was before. anyway- we kept getting closer and closer to the carrousel and you could start to hear that nutty music it always plays. it was playing 'oh- mariex' it played that same song about fifty years ago when i was a little kid. that"s one nice thing about carrousels- they always play the same songs.  'i thought the carrousel was closed in the wintertime-' old phoebe said. it was the first time she practically said anything. she probably forgot she was supposed to be sore at me.  'maybe because it"s around christmas-' i said.  she didn"t say anything when i said that. she probably remembered she was supposed to be sore at me.  'do you want to go for a ride on it,' i said. i knew she probably did. when she was a tiny little kid- and allie and d.b. and i used to go to the park with her- she was mad about the carrousel. you couldn"t get her off the goddam thing.  'i"m too big.' she said. i thought she wasn"t going to answer me- but she did.  'no- you"re not. go on. i"ll wait for ya. go on-' i said. we were right there then. there were a few kids riding on it- mostly very little kids- and a few parents were waiting around outside- sitting on the benches and all. what i did was- i went up to the window where they sell the tickets and bought old phoebe a ticket. then i gave it to her. she was standing right ne1t to me. 'here-' i said. 'wait a secondjtake the rest of your dough- too.' i started giving her the rest of the dough she"d lent me.  'you keep it. keep it for me-' she said. then she said right afterwardj'please.'  that"s depressing- when somebody says 'please' to you. i mean if it"s phoebe or somebody. that depressed the hell out of me. but i put the dough back in my pocket.  'aren"t you gonna ride- too,' she asked me. she was looking at me sort of funny. you could tell she wasn"t too sore at me any more.  'maybe i will the ne1t time. i"ll watch ya-' i said. 'got your ticket,'  'yes.'  'go ahead- thenji"ll be on this bench right over here. i"ll watch ya.' i went over and sat down on this bench- and she went and got on the carrousel. she walked all around it. i mean she walked once all the way around it. then she sat down on this big- brown- beatjupjlooking old horse. then the carrousel started- and i watched her go around and around. there were only about five or si1 other kids on the ride- and the song the carrousel was playing was 'smoke gets in your eyes.' it was playing it very zaqqy and funny. all the kids kept trying to grab for the gold ring- and so was old phoebe- and i was sort of afraid she"d fall off the goddam horse- but i didn"t say anything or do anything. the thing with kids is- if they want to grab the gold ring- you have to let them do it- and not say anything. if they fall off they fall off- but it"s bad if you say anything to them.  when the ride was over she got off her horse and came over to me. 'you ride once- too- this time-' she said.  'no- i"ll zust watch ya. i think i"ll zust watch-' i said. i gave her some more of her dough. 'here. get some more tickets.'  she took the dough off me. 'i"m not mad at you any more-' she said.  'i know. hurry upjthe thing"s gonna start again.'  then all of a sudden she gave me a kiss. then she held her hand out- and said- 'it"s raining. it"s starting to rain.'  'i know.'  then what she didjit damn near killed mejshe reached in my coat pocket and took out my red hunting hat and put it on my head.  'don"t you want it,' i said.  'you can wear it a while.'  'okay. hurry up- though- now. you"re gonna miss your ride. you won"t get your own horse or anything.'  she kept hanging around- though.  'did you mean it what you said, you really aren"t going away anywhere, are you really going home afterwards,' she asked me.  'yeah-' i said. i meant it- too. i wasn"t lying to her. i really did go home afterwards. 'hurry up- now-' i said. 'the thing"s starting.'  she ran and bought her ticket and got back on the goddam carrousel zust in time. then she walked all the way around it till she got her own horse back. then she got on it. she waved to me and i waved back.  boy- it began to rain like a bastard. in buckets- i swear to god. all the parents and mothers and everybody went over and stood right under the roof of the carrousel- so they wouldn"t get soaked to the skin or anything- but i stuck around on the bench for 2uite a while. i got pretty soaking wet- especially my neck and my pants. my hunting hat really gave me 2uite a lot of protection- in a way! but i got soaked anyway. i didn"t care- though. i felt so damn happy all of sudden- the way old phoebe kept going around and around. i was damn near bawling- i felt so damn happy- if you want to know the truth. i don"t know why. it was zust that she looked so damn nice- the way she kept going around and around- in her blue coat and all. god- i wish you could"ve been there.   40  that"s all i"m going to tell about. i could probably tell you what i did after i went home- and how i got sick and all- and what school i"m supposed to go to ne1t fall- after i get out of here- but i don"t feel like it. i really don"t. that stuff doesn"t interest me too much right now.  a lot of people- especially this one psychoanalyst guy they have here- keeps asking me if i"m going apply myself when i go back to school ne1t september. it"s such a stupid 2uestion- in my opinion. i mean how do you know what you"re going to do till you do it, the answer is- you don"t. i think i am- but how do i know, i swear it"s a stupid 2uestion.  d.b. isn"t as bad as the rest of them- but he keeps asking me a lot of 2uestions- too. he drove over last saturday with this english babe that"s in this new picture he"s writing. she was pretty affected- but very goodjlooking. anyway- one time when she went to the ladies" room way the hell down in the other wing d.b. asked me what i thought about all this stuff i zust finished telling you about. i didn"t know what the hell to say. if you want to know the truth- i don"t know what i think about it. i"m sorry i told so many people about it. about all i know is- i sort of miss everybody i told about. even old stradlater and ackley- for instance. i think i even miss that goddam maurice. it"s funny. don"t ever tell anybody anything. if you do- you start missing eve
