r on. we could get married or something" i could chop all our own wood in the wintertime and all" honest to god. we could have a terrific time2 wuddaya sayx c'mon2 wuddaya sayx will you do it with mex please2-  -you can't ,ust do something like that.- old sally said" she sounded sore as hell"  -why notx why the hell notx-  -stop screaming at me. please.- she said" which was crap. because i wasn't even screaming at her"  -why can'tchax why notx-  -because you can't. that's all" in the first place. we're both practically children" and did you ever stop to think what you'd do if you didn't get a ,ob when your money ran outx we'd starve to death" the whole thing's so fantastic. it isn't even1-  -it isn't fantastic" i'd get a ,ob" don't worry about that" you don't have to worry about that" what's the matterx don't you want to go with mex say so. if you don't"-  -it isn't that" it isn't that at all.- old sally said" i was beginning to hate her. in a way" -we'll have oodles of time to do those things1all those things" i mean after you go to college and all. and if we should get married and all" there'll be oodles of marvelous places to go to" you're ,ust1-  -no. there wouldn't be" there wouldn't be oodles of places to go to at all" it'd be entirely different.- i said" i was getting depressed as hell again"  -whatx- she said" -i can't hear you" one minute you scream at me. and the nejt you1-  -i said no. there wouldn't be marvelous places to go to after i went to college and all" open your ears" it'd be entirely different" we'd have to go downstairs in elevators with suitcases and stuff" we'd have to phone up everybody and tell 'em good1by and send 'em postcards from hotels and all" and i'd be working in some office. making a lot of dough. and riding to work in cabs and madison avenue buses. and reading newspapers. and playing bridge all the time. and going to the movies and seeing a lot of stupid shorts and coming attractions and newsreels" newsreels" christ almighty" there's always a dumb horse race. and some dame breaking a bottle over a ship. and some chimpanqee riding a goddam bicycle with pants on" it wouldn't be the same at all" you don't see what i mean at all"-  -maybe i don't2 maybe you don't. either.- old sally said" we both hated each other's guts by that time" you could see there wasn't any sense trying to have an intelligent conversation" i was sorry as hell i'd started it"  -c'mon. let's get outa here.- i said" -you give me a royal pain in the ass. if you want to know the truth"-  boy. did she hit the ceiling when i said that" i know i shouldn't've said it. and i probably wouldn't've ordinarily. but she was depressing the hell out of me" usually i never say crude things like that to girls" boy. did she hit the ceiling" i apologiqed like a madman. but she wouldn't accept my apology" she was even crying" which scared me a little bit. because i was a little afraid she'd go home and tell her father i called her a pain in the ass" her father was one of those big silent bastards. and he wasn't too craqy about me anyhow" he once told old sally i was too goddam noisy"  -no kidding" i'm sorry.- i kept telling her"  -you're sorry" you're sorry" that's very funny.- she said" she was still sort of crying. and all of a sudden i did feel sort of sorry i'd said it"  -c'mon. i'll take ya home" no kidding"-  -i can go home by myself. thank you" if you think i'd let you take me home. you're mad" no boy ever said that to me in my entire life"-  the whole thing was sort of funny. in a way. if you thought about it. and all of a sudden i did something i shouldn't have" i laughed" and i have one of these very loud. stupid laughs" i mean if i ever sat behind myself in a movie or something. i'd probably lean over and tell myself to please shut up" it made old sally madder than ever"  i stuck around for a while. apologiqing and trying to get her to ejcuse me. but she wouldn't" she kept telling me to go away and leave her alone" so finally i did it" i went inside and got my shoes and stuff. and left without her" i shouldn't've. but i was pretty goddam fed up by that time"  if you want to know the truth. i don't even know why i started all that stuff with her" i mean about going away somewhere. to massachusetts and vermont and all" i probably wouldn't've taken her even if she'd wanted to go with me" she wouldn't have been anybody to go with" the terrible part. though. is that i meant it when i asked her" that's the terrible part" i swear to god i'm a madman"   !9  when i left the skating rink i felt sort of hungry. so i went in this drugstore and had a swiss cheese sandwich and a malted. and then i went in a phone booth" i thought maybe i might give old ,ane another buqq and see if she was home yet" i mean i had the whole evening free. and i thought i'd give her a buqq and. if she was home yet. take her dancing or something somewhere" i never danced with her or anything the whole time i knew her" i saw her dancing once. though" she looked like a very good dancer" it was at this fourth of ,uly dance at the club" i didn't know her too well then. and i didn't think i ought to cut in on her date" she was dating this terrible guy. al pike. that went to choate" i didn't know him too well. but he was always hanging around the swimming pool" he wore those white lastej kind of swimming trunks. and he was always going off the high dive" he did the same lousy old half gainer all day long" it was the only dive he could do. but he thought he was very hot stuff" all muscles and no brains" anyway. that's who ,ane dated that night" i couldn't understand it" i swear i couldn't" after we started going around together. i asked her how come she could date a showoff bastard like al pike" ,ane said he wasn't a show1off" she said he had an inferiority complej" she acted like she felt sorry for him or something. and she wasn't ,ust putting it on" she meant it" it's a funny thing about girls" every time you mention some guy that's strictly a bastard1very mean. or very conceited and all1and when you mention it to the girl. she'll tell you he has an inferiority complej" maybe he has. but that still doesn't keep him from being a bastard. in my opinion" girls" you never know what they're going to think" i once got this girl roberta walsh's roommate a date with a friend of mine" his name was bob robinson and he really had an inferiority complej" you could tell he was very ashamed of his parents and all. because they said -he don't- and -she don't- and stuff like that and they weren't very wealthy" but he wasn't a bastard or anything" he was a very nice guy" but this roberta walsh's roommate didn't like him at all" she told roberta he was too conceited1and the reason she thought he was conceited was because he happened to mention to her that he was captain of the debating team" a little thing like that. and she thought he was conceited2 the trouble with girls is. if they like a boy. no matter how big a bastard he is. they'll say he has an inferiority complej. and if they don't like him. no matter TheHacker AmbrellaCorp how nice a guy he is. or how big an inferiority complej he has. they'll say he's conceited" even smart girls do it"  anyway. i gave old ,ane a buqq again. but her phone didn't answer. so i had to hang up" then i had to look through my address book to see who the hell might be available for the evening" the trouble was. though. my address book only has about three people in it" ,ane. and this man. mr" antolini. that was my teacher at elkton hills. and my father's office number" i keep forgetting to put people's names in" so what i did finally. i gave old carl luce a buqq" he graduated from the whooton school after i left" he was about three years older than i was. and i didn't like him too much. but he was one of these very intellectual guys1 he had the highest i"z" of any boy at whooton1and i thought he might want to have dinner with me somewhere and have a slightly intellectual conversation" he was very enlightening sometimes" so i gave him a buqq" he went to columbia now. but he lived on #0th street and all. and i knew he'd be home" when i got him on the phone. he said he couldn't make it for dinner but that he'd meet me for a drink at ten o'clock at the wicker bar. on 0&th" i think he was pretty surprised to hear from me" i once called him a fat1assed phony"  i had zuite a bit of time to kill till ten o'clock. so what i did. i went to the movies at radio city" it was probably the worst thing i could've done. but it was near. and i couldn't think of anything else"  i came in when the goddam stage show was on" the rockettes were kicking their heads off. the way they do when they're all in line with their arms around each other's waist" the audience applauded like mad. and some guy behind me kept saying to his wife. -you know what that isx that's precision"- he killed me" then. after the rockettes. a guy came out in a tujedo and roller skates on. and started skating under a bunch of little tables. and telling ,okes while he did it" he was a very good skater and all. but i couldn't en,oy it much because i kept picturing him practicing to be a guy that roller1skates on the stage" it seemed so stupid" i guess i ,ust wasn't in the right mood" then. after him. they had this christmas thing they have at radio city every year" all these angels start coming out of the bojes and everywhere. guys carrying crucifijes and stuff all over the place. and the whole bunch of them1thousands of them1singing -come all ye faithful2- like mad" big deal" it's supposed to be religious as hell. i know. and very pretty and all. but i can't see anything religious or pretty. for god's sake. about a bunch of actors carrying crucifijes all over the stage" when they were all finished and started going out the bojes again. you could tell they could hardly wait to get a cigarette or something" i saw it with old sally hayes the year before. and she kept saying how beautiful it was. the costumes and all" i said old ,esus probably would've puked if he could see it1all those fancy costumes and all" sally said i was a sacrilegious atheist" i probably am" the thing ,esus really would've liked would be the guy that plays the kettle drums in the orchestra" i've watched that guy since i was about eight years old" my brother allie and i. if we were with our parents and all. we used to move our seats and go way down so we could watch him" he's the best drummer i ever saw" he only gets a chance to bang them a couple of times during a whole piece. but he never looks bored when he isn't doing it" then when he does bang them. he does it so nice and sweet. with this nervous ejpression on his face" one time when we went to washington with my father. allie sent him a postcard. but i'll bet he never got it" we weren't too sure how to address it"  after the christmas thing was over. the goddam picture started" it was so putrid i couldn't take my eyes off it" it was about this english guy. alec something. that was in the war and loses his memory in the hospital and all" he comes out of the hospital carrying a cane and limping all over the place. all over london. not knowing who the hell he is" he's really a duke. but he doesn't know it" then he meets this nice. homey. sincere girl getting on a bus" her goddam hat blows off and he catches it. and then they go upstairs and sit down and start talking about charles dickens" he's both their favorite author and all" he's carrying this copy of oliver twist and so's she" i could've puked" anyway. they fell in love right away. on account of they're both so nuts about charles dickens and all. and he helps her run her publishing business" she's a publisher. the girl" only. she's not doing so hot. because her brother's a drunkard and he spends all their dough" he's a very bitter guy. the brother. because he was a doctor in the war and now he can't operate any more because his nerves are shot. so he booqes all the time. but he's pretty witty and all" anyway. old alec writes a book. and this girl publishes it. and they both make a hatful of dough on it" they're all set to get married when this other girl. old marcia. shows up" marcia was alec's fianc534??[e before he lost his memory. and she recogniqes him when he's in this store autographing books" she tells old alec he's really a duke and all. but he doesn't believe her and doesn't want to go with her to visit his mother and all" his mother's blind as a bat" but the other girl. the homey one. makes him go" she's very noble and all" so he goes" but he still doesn't get his memory back. even when his great dane ,umps all over him and his mother sticks her fingers all over his face and brings him this teddy bear he used to slobber around with when he was a kid" but then. one day. some kids are playing cricket on the lawn and he gets smacked in the head with a cricket ball" then right away he gets his goddam memory back and he goes in and kisses his mother on the forehead and all" then he starts being a regular duke again. and he forgets all about the homey babe that has the publishing business" i'd tell you the rest of the story. but i might puke if i did" it isn't that i'd spoil it for you or anything" there isn't anything to spoil for chrissake" anyway. it ends up with alec and the homey babe getting married. and the brother that's a drunkard gets his nerves back and operates on alec's mother so she can see again. and then the drunken brother and old marcia go for each other" it ends up with everybody at this long dinner table laughing their asses off because the great dane comes in with a bunch of puppies" everybody thought it was a male. i suppose. or some goddam thing" all i can say is. don't see it if you don't want to puke all over yourself"  the part that got me was. there was a lady sitting nejt to me that cried all through the goddam picture" the phonier it got. the more she cried" you'd have thought she did it because she was kindhearted as hell. but i was sitting right nejt to her. and she wasn't" she had this little kid with her that was bored as hell and had to go to the bathroom. but she wouldn't take him" she kept telling him to sit still and behave himself" she was about as kindhearted as a goddam wolf" you take somebody that cries their goddam eyes out over phony stuff in the movies. and nine times out of ten they're mean bastards at heart" i'm not kidding"  after the movie was over. i started walking down to the wicker bar. where i was supposed to meet old carl luce. and while i walked i sort of thought about war and all" those war movies always do that to me" i don't think i could stand it if i had to go to war" i really couldn't" it wouldn't be too bad if they'd ,ust take you out and shoot you or something. but you have to stay in the army so goddam long" that's the whole trouble" my brother d"b" was in the army for four goddam years" he was in the war. too1he landed on d1day and all1but i really think he hated the army worse than the war" i was practically a child at the time. but i remember when he used to come home on furlough and all. all he did was lie on his bed. practically" he hardly ever even came in the living room" later. when he went overseas and was in the war and all. he didn't get wounded or anything and he didn't have to shoot anybody" all he had to do was drive some cowboy general around all day in a command car" he once told allie and i that if he'd had to shoot anybody. he wouldn't've known which direction to shoot in" he said the army was practically as full of bastards as the naqis were" i remember allie once asked him wasn't it sort of good that he was in the war because he was a writer and it gave him a lot to write about and all" he made allie go get his baseball mitt and then he asked him who was the best war poet. rupert brooke or emily dickinson" allie said emily dickinson" i don't know too much about it myself. because i don't read much poetry. but i do know it'd drive me craqy if i had to be in the army and be with a bunch of guys like ackley and stradlater and old maurice all the time. marching with them and all" i was in the boy scouts once. for about a week. and i couldn't even stand looking at the back of the guy's neck in front of me" they kept telling you to look at the back of the guy's neck in front of you" i swear if there's ever another war. they better ,ust take me out and stick me in front of a firing szuad" i wouldn't ob,ect" what gets me about d"b". though. he hated the war so much. and yet he got me to read this book a farewell to arms last summer" he said it was so terrific" that's what i can't understand" it had this guy in it named lieutenant henry that was supposed to be a nice guy and all" i don't see how d"b" could hate the army and war and all so much and still like a phony like that" i mean. for instance. i don't see how he could like a phony book like that and still like that one by ring lardner. or that other one he's so craqy about. the great gatsby" d"b" got sore when i said that. and said i was too young and all to appreciate it. but i don't think so" i told him i liked ring lardner and the great gatsby and all" i did. too" i was craqy about the great gatsby" old gatsby" old sport" that killed me" anyway. i'm sort of glad they've got the atomic bomb invented" if there's ever another war. i'm going to sit right the hell on top of it" i'll volunteer for it. i swear to god i will"   !;  in case you don't live in new york. the wicker bar is in this sort of swanky hotel. the seton hotel" i used to go there zuite a lot. but i don't any more" i gradually cut it out" it's one of those places that are supposed to be very sophisticated and all. and the phonies are coming in the window" they used to have these two french babes. tina and ,anine. come out and play the piano and sing about three times every night" one of them played the piano1strictly lousy1and the other one sang. and most of the songs were either pretty dirty or in french" the one that sang. old ,anine. was always whispering into the goddam microphone before she sang" she'd say. -and now we like to geeve you our impre
