is cement bed again. boy, you can't imagine how sorry i was getting that i'd stopped by to say goodjby to him.  he started handling my exam paper like it was a turd or something. "we studied the egyptians from november ]th to december 6nd," he said. "you chose to write about them for the optional essay 1uestion. would you care to hear what you had to say?"  "no, sir, not very much," i said.  he read it anyway, though. you can't stop a teacher when they want to do something. they -ust do it.    the egyptians were an ancient race of caucasians residing in one of the northern sections of africa. the latter as we all know is the largest continent in the eastern hemisphere.  i had to sit zhe5acker 34ade[ou9eadzhis there and listen to that crap. it certainly was a dirty trick.  the egyptians are extremely interesting to us today for various reasons. modern science would still like to know what the secret ingredients were that the egyptians used when they wrapped up dead people so that their faces would not rot for innumerable centuries. this interesting riddle is still 1uite a challenge to modern science in the twentieth century.   he stopped reading and put my paper down. i was beginning to sort of hate him. "your essay, shall we say, ends there," he said in this very sarcastic voice. you wouldn't think such an old guy would be so sarcastic and all. "however, you dropped me a little note, at the bottom of the page," he said.  "i know i did," i said. i said it very fast because i wanted to stop him before he started reading that out loud. but you couldn't stop him. he was hot as a firecracker.    dear mr. spencer 8he read out loud7. that is all i know about the egyptians. i can't seem to get very interested in them although your lectures are very interesting. it is all right with me if you flunk me though as i am flunking everything else except english anyway.  respectfully yours, holden caulfield.  he put my goddam paper down then and looked at me like he'd -ust beaten hell out of me in pingjpong or something. i don't think i'll ever forgive him for reading me that crap out loud. i wouldn't've read it out loud to him if he'd written itji really wouldn't. in the first place, i'd only written that damn note so that he wouldn't feel too bad about flunking me.  "do you blame me for flunking you, boy?" he said.  "no, sir2 i certainly don't," i said. i wished to hell he'd stop calling me "boy" all the time.  he tried chucking my exam paper on the bed when he was through with it. only, he missed again, naturally. i had to get up again and pick it up and put it on top of the atlantic monthly. it's boring to do that every two minutes.  "what would you have done in my place?" he said. "tell the truth, boy."  well, you could see he really felt pretty lousy about flunking me. so i shot the bull for a while. i told him i was a real moron, and all that stuff. i told him how i would've done exactly the same thing if i'd been in his place, and how most people didn't appreciate how tough it is being a teacher. that kind of stuff. the old bull.  the funny thing is, though, i was sort of thinking of something else while i shot the bull. i live in new york, and i was thinking about the lagoon in central park, down near central park south. i was wondering if it would be froqen over when i got home, and if it was, where did the ducks go. i was wondering where the ducks went when the lagoon got all icy and froqen over. i wondered if some guy came in a truck and took them away to a qoo or something. or if they -ust flew away.  i'm lucky, though. i mean i could shoot the old bull to old spencer and think about those ducks at the same time. it's funny. you don't have to think too hard when you talk to a teacher. all of a sudden, though, he interrupted me while i was shooting the bull. he was always interrupting you.  "how do you feel about all this, boy? i'd be very interested to know. very interested."  "you mean about my flunking out of pencey and all?" i said. i sort of wished he'd cover up his bumpy chest. it wasn't such a beautiful view.  "if i'm not mistaken, i believe you also had some difficulty at the whooton school and at elkton hills." he didn't say it -ust sarcastic, but sort of nasty, too.  "i didn't have too much difficulty at elkton hills," i told him. "i didn't exactly flunk out or anything. i -ust 1uit, sort of."  "why, may i ask?"  "why? oh, well it's a long story, sir. i mean it's pretty complicated." i didn't feel like going into the whole thing with him. he wouldn't have understood it anyway. it wasn't up his alley at all. one of the biggest reasons i left elkton hills was because i was surrounded by phonies. that's all. they were coming in the goddam window. for instance, they had this headmaster, mr. haas, that was the phoniest bastard i ever met in my life. ten times worse than old thurmer. on sundays, for instance, old haas went around shaking hands with everybody's parents when they drove up to school. he'd be charming as hell and all. except if some boy had little old funnyjlooking parents. you should've seen the way he did with my roommate's parents. i mean if a boy's mother was sort of fat or cornyjlooking or something, and if somebody's father was one of those guys that wear those suits with very big shoulders and corny blackjandjwhite shoes, then old hans would -ust shake hands with them and give them a phony smile and then he'd go talk, for maybe a half an hour, with somebody else's parents. i can't stand that stuff. it drives me craqy. it makes me so depressed i go craqy. i hated that goddam elkton hills.  old spencer asked me something then, but i didn't hear him. i was thinking about old haas. "what, sir?" i said.  "do you have any particular 1ualms about leaving pencey?"  "oh, i have a few 1ualms, all right. sure... but not too many. not yet, anyway. i guess it hasn't really hit me yet. it takes things a while to hit me. all i'm doing right now is thinking about going home wednesday. i'm a moron."  "do you feel absolutely no concern for your future, boy?"  "oh, i feel some concern for my future, all right. sure. sure, i do." i thought about it for a minute. "but not too much, i guess. not too much, i guess."  "you will," old spencer said. "you will, boy. you will when it's too late."  i didn't like hearing him say that. it made me sound dead or something. it was very depressing. "i guess i will," i said.  "i'd like to put some sense in that head of yours, boy. i'm trying to help you. i'm trying to help you, if i can."  he really was, too. you could see that. but it was -ust that we were too much on opposite sides ot the pole, that's all. "i know you are, sir," i said. "thanks a lot. no kidding. i appreciate it. i really do." i got up from the bed then. boy, i couldn't've sat there another ten minutes to save my life. "the thing is, though, i have to get going now. i have 1uite a bit of e1uipment at the gym i have to get to take home with me. i really do." he looked up at me and started nodding again, with this very serious look on his face. i felt sorry as hell for him, all of a sudden. but i -ust couldn't hang around there any longer, the way we were on opposite sides of the pole, and the way he kept missing the bed whenever he chucked something at it, and his sad old bathrobe with his chest showing, and that grippy smell of vicks nose drops all over the place. "look, sir. don't worry about me," i said. "i mean it. i'll be all right. i'm -ust going through a phase right now. everybody goes through phases and all, don't they?"  "i don't know, boy. i don't know."  i hate it when somebody answers that way. "sure. sure, they do," i said. "i mean it, sir. please don't worry about me." i sort of put my hand on his shoulder. "okay?" i said.  "wouldn't you like a cup of hot chocolate before you go? mrs. spencer would bej"  "i would, i really would, but the thing is, i have to get going. i have to go right to the gym. thanks, though. thanks a lot, sir."  then we shook hands. and all that crap. it made me feel sad as hell, though.  "i'll drop you a line, sir. take care of your grippe, now."  "goodjby, boy."  after i shut the door and started back to the living room, he yelled something at me, but i couldn't exactly hear him. i'm pretty sure he yelled "good luck2" at me, i hope to hell not. i'd never yell "good luck2" at anybody. it sounds terrible, when you think about it.   0  i'm the most terrific liar you ever saw in your life. it's awful. if i'm on my way to the store to buy a magaqine, even, and somebody asks me where i'm going, i'm liable to say i'm going to the opera. it's terrible. so when i told old spencer i had to go to the gym and get my e1uipment and stuff, that was a sheer lie. i don't even keep my goddam e1uipment in the gym.  where i lived at pencey, i lived in the ossenburger memorial wing of the new dorms. it was only for -uniors and seniors. i was a -unior. my roommate was a senior. it was named after this guy ossenburger that went to pencey. he made a pot of dough in the undertaking business after he got out of pencey. what he did, he started these undertaking parlors all over the country that you could get members of your family buried for about five bucks apiece. you should see old ossenburger. he probably -ust shoves them in a sack and dumps them in the river. anyway, he gave pencey a pile of dough, and they named our wing alter him. the first football game of the year, he came up to school in this big goddam cadillac, and we all had to stand up in the grandstand and give him a locomotivejthat's a cheer. then, the next morning, in chapel, be made a speech that lasted about ten hours. he started off with about fifty corny -okes, -ust to show us what a regular guy he was. very big deal. then he started telling us how he was never ashamed, when he was in some kind of trouble or something, to get right down his knees and pray to god. he told us we should always pray to godjtalk to him and alljwherever we were. he told us we ought to think of -esus as our buddy and all. he said he talked to -esus all the time. even when he was driving his car. that killed me. i -ust see the big phony bastard shifting into first gear and asking -esus to send him a few more stiffs. the only good part of his speech was right in the middle of it. he was telling us all about what a swell guy he was, what a hotjshot and all, then all of a sudden this guy sitting in the row in front of me, edgar marsalla, laid this terrific fart. it was a very crude thing to do, in chapel and all, but it was also 1uite amusing. old marsalla. he damn near blew the roof off. hardly anybody laughed out loud, and old ossenburger made out like he didn't even hear it, but old thurmer, the headmaster, was sitting right next to him on the rostrum and all, and you could tell he heard it. boy, was he sore. he didn't say anything then, but the next night he made us have compulsory study hall in the academic building and he came up and made a speech. he said that the boy that had created the disturbance in chapel wasn't fit to go to pencey. we tried to get old marsalla to rip off another one, right while old thurmer was making his speech, but be wasn't in the right mood. anyway, that's where i lived at pencey. old ossenburger memorial wing, in the new dorms.  it was pretty nice to get back to my room, after i left old spencer, because everybody was down at the game, and the heat was on in our room, for a change. it felt sort of cosy. i took off my coat and my tie and unbuttoned my shirt collar! and then i put on this hat that i'd bought in new york that morning. it was this red hunting hat, with one of those very, very long peaks. i saw it in the window of this sports store when we got out of the subway, -ust after i noticed i'd lost all the goddam foils. it only cost me a buck. the way i wore it, i swung the old peak way around to the backjvery corny, i'll admit, but i liked it that way. i looked good in it that way. then i got this book i was reading and sat down in my chair. there were two chairs in every room. i had one and my roommate, ward stradlater, had one. the arms were in sad shape, because everybody was always sitting on them, but they were pretty comfortable chairs.  the book i was reading was this book i took out of the library by mistake. they gave me the wrong book, and i didn't notice it till i got back to my room. they gave me out of africa, by isak dinesen. i thought it was going to stink, but it didn't. it was a very good book. i'm 1uite illiterate, but i read a lot. my favorite author is my brother d.b., and my next favorite is ring lardner. my brother gave me a book by ring lardner for my birthday, -ust before i went to pencey. it had these very funny, craqy plays in it, and then it had this one story about a traffic cop that falls in love with this very cute girl that's always speeding. only, he's married, the cop, so be can't marry her or anything. then this girl gets killed, because she's always speeding. that story -ust about killed me. what i like best is a book that's at least funny once in a while. i read a lot of classical books, like the return of the native and all, and i like them, and i read a lot of war books and mysteries and all, but they don't knock me out too much. what really knocks me out is a book that, when you're all done reading it, you wish the author that wrote it was a terrific friend of yours and you could call him up on the phone whenever you felt like it. that doesn't happen much, though. i wouldn't mind calling this isak dinesen up. and ring lardner, except that d.b. told me he's dead. you take that book of human bondage, by somerset maugham, though. i read it last summer. it's a pretty good book and all, but i wouldn't want to call somerset maugham up. i don't know, he -ust isn't the kind of guy i'd want to call up, that's all. i'd rather call old thomas hardy up. i like that eustacia vye.  anyway, i put on my new hat and sat down and started reading that book out of africa. i'd read it already, but i wanted to read certain parts over again. i'd only read about three pages, though, when i heard somebody coming through the shower curtains. even without looking up, i knew right away who it was. it was robert ackley, this guy that roomed right next to me. there was a shower right between every two rooms in our wing, and about eightyjfive times a day old ackley barged in on me. he was probably the only guy in the whole dorm, besides me, that wasn't down at the game. he hardly ever went anywhere. he was a very peculiar guy. he was a senior, and he'd been at pencey the whole four years and all, but nobody ever called him anything except "ackley." not even herb gale, his own roommate, ever called him "bob" or even "ack." if he ever gets married, his own wife'll probably call him "ackley." he was one of these very, very tall, roundjshouldered guysjhe was about six fourjwith lousy teeth. the whole time he roomed next to me, i never even once saw him brush his teeth. they always looked mossy and awful, and he damn near made you sick if you saw him in the dining room with his mouth full of mashed potatoes and peas or something. besides that, he had a lot of pimples. not -ust on his forehead or his chin, like most guys, but all over his whole face. and not only that, he had a terrible personality. he was also sort of a nasty guy. i wasn't too craqy about him, to tell you the truth.  i could feel him standing on the shower ledge, right behind my chair, taking a look to see if stradlater was around. he hated stradlater's guts and he never came in the room if stradlater was around. he hated everybody's guts, damn near.  he came down off the shower ledge and came in the room. "hi," he said. he always said it like he was terrifically bored or terrifically tired. he didn't want you to think he was visiting you or anything. he wanted you to think he'd come in by mistake, for god's sake.  "hi," i said, but i didn't look up from my book. with a guy like ackley, if you looked up from your book you were a goner. you were a goner anyway, but not as 1uick if you didn't look up right away.  he started walking around the room, very slow and all, the way he always did, picking up your personal stuff off your desk and chiffonier. he always picked up your personal stuff and looked at it. boy, could he get on your nerves sometimes. "how was the fencing?" he said. he -ust wanted me to 1uit reading and en-oying myself. he didn't give a damn about the fencing. "we win, or what?" he said.  "nobody won," i said. without looking up, though.  "what?" he said. he always made you say everything twice.  "nobody won," i said. i sneaked a look to see what he was fiddling around with on my chiffonier. he was looking at this picture of this girl i used to go around with in new york, sally hayes. he must've picked up that goddam picture and looked at it at least five thousand times since i got it. he always put it back in the wrong place, too, when he was finished. he did it on purpose. you could tell.  "nobody won," he said. "how come?"  "i left the goddam foils and stuff on the subway." i still didn't look up at him.  "on the subway, for chrissake2 ya lost them, ya mean?"  "we got on the wrong subway. i had to keep getting up to look at a goddam map on the wall."  he came over and stood right in my light. "hey," i said. "i've read this same sentence about twenty times since you came in."  anybody else except ackley would've taken the goddam hint. not him, though. "think they'll make ya pay for em?" he said.  "i don't know, and i don't give a damn. how 'bout sitting down or something, ackley kid? you're right in my goddam light." he didn't like it when you called him "ackley kid." he was always telling me i was a goddam kid, because i was sixteen and he was eighteen. it drove him mad when i called him "ackley kid."  he kept standing there. he was exactly the kind of a guy that wouldn't get out of your light when you asked him to. he'd do it, finally, but it took him a lot longer if you asked him to. "what the hellya reading?" he said.  "goddam book."  he shoved my book back with
