was all through combing his hair and patting it and all" so he left. like stradlater. all these handsome guys are the same. when they're done combing their goddam hair" they beat it on you.  when i finally got down off the radiator and went out to the hat,check room" i was crying and all. i don't know why" but i was. i guess it was because i was feeling so damn depressed and lonesome. then" when i went out to the checkroom" i couldn't find my goddam check. the hat,check girl was very nice about it" though. she gave me my coat anyway. and my -little shirley beans- record,i still had it with me and all. i gave her a buck for being so nice" but she wouldn't take it. she kept telling me to go home and go to bed. i sort of tried to make a date with her for when she got through working" but she wouldn't do it. she said she was old enough to be my mother and all. i showed her my goddam gray hair and told her i was forty,two,i was only horsing around" naturally. she was nice" though. i showed her my goddam red hunting hat" and she liked it. she made me put it on before i went out" because my hair was still pretty wet. she was all right.  i didn't feel too drunk any more when i went outside" but it was getting very cold out again" and my teeth started chattering like hell. i couldn't make them stop. i walked over to madison avenue and started to wait around for a bus because i didn't have hardly any money left and i had to start economizing on cabs and all. but i didn't feel like getting on a damn bus. and besides" i didn't even know where i was supposed to go. so what i did" i started walking over to the park. i figured i'd go by that little lake and see what the hell the ducks were doing" see if they were around or not" i still didn't know if they were around or not. it wasn't far over to the park" and i didn't have anyplace else special to go to,i didn't even know where i was going to sleep yet,so i went. i wasn't tired or anything. i just felt blue as hell.  then something terrible happened just as i got in the park. i dropped old phoebe's record. it broke,into about fifty pieces. it was in a big envelope and all" but it broke anyway. i damn near cried" it made me feel so terrible" but all i did was" i took the pieces out of the envelope and put them in my coat pocket. they weren't any good for anything" but i didn't feel like just throwing them away. then i went in the park. boy" was it dark.  i've lived in new york all my life" and i know central park like the back of my hand" because i used to roller,skate there all the time and ride my bike when i was a kid" but i had the most terrific trouble finding that lagoon that night. i knew right where it was,it was right near central park south and all,but i still couldn't find it. i must've been drunker than i thought. i kept walking and walking" and it kept getting darker and darker and spookier and spookier. i didn't see one person the whole time i was in the park. i'm just as glad. i probably would've jumped about a mile if i had. then" finally" i found it. what it was" it was partly frozen and partly not frozen. but i didn't see any ducks around. i walked all around the whole damn lake,i damn near fell in once" in fact,but i didn't see a single duck. i thought maybe if there were any around" they might be asleep or something near the edge of the water" near the grass and all. that's how i nearly fell in. but i couldn't find any.  finally i sat down on this bench" where it wasn't so goddam dark. boy" i was still shivering like a bastard" and the back of my hair" even though i had my hunting hat on" was sort of full of little hunks of ice. that worried me. i thought probably i'd get pneumonia and die. i started picturing millions of jerks coming to my funeral and all. my grandfather from detroit" that keeps calling out the numbers of the streets when you ride on a goddam bus with him" and my aunts,i have about fifty aunts,and all my lousy cousins. what a mob'd be there. they all came when allie died" the whole goddam stupid bunch of them. i have this one stupid aunt with halitosis that kept saying how peaceful he looked lying there" d.b. told me. i wasn't there. i was still in the hospital. i had to go to the hospital and all after i hurt my hand. anyway" i kept worrying that i was getting pneumonia" with all those hunks of ice in my hair" and that i was going to die. i felt sorry as hell for my mother and father. especially my mother" because she still isn't over my brother allie yet. i kept picturing her not knowing what to do with all my suits and athletic equipment and all. the only good thing" i knew she wouldn't let old phoebe come to my goddam funeral because she was only a little kid. that was the only good part. then i thought about the whole bunch of them sticking me in a goddam cemetery and all" with my name on this tombstone and all. surrounded by dead guys. boy" when you're dead" they really fi2 you up. i hope to hell when i do die somebody has sense enough to just dump me in the river or something. anything e2cept sticking me in a goddam cemetery. people coming and putting a bunch of flowers on your stomach on sunday" and all that crap. who wants flowers when you're dead1 nobody.  when the weather's nice" my parents go out quite frequently and stick a bunch of flowers on old allie's grave. i went with them a couple of times" but i cut it out. in the first place" i certainly don't enjoy seeing him in that crazy cemetery. surrounded by dead guys and tombstones and all. it wasn't too bad when the sun was out" but twice,twice,we were there when it started to rain. it was awful. it rained on his lousy tombstone" and it rained on the grass on his stomach. it rained all over the place. all the visitors that were visiting the cemetery started running like hell over to their cars. that's what nearly drove me crazy. all the visitors could get in their cars and turn on their radios and all and then go someplace nice for dinner,everybody e2cept allie. i couldn't stand it. i know it's only his body and all that's in the cemetery" and his soul's in heaven and all that crap" but i couldn't stand it anyway. i just wish he wasn't there. you didn't know him. if you'd known him" you'd know what i mean. it's not too bad when the sun's out" but the sun only comes out when it feels like coming out.  after a while" just to get my mind off getting pneumonia and all" i took out my dough and tried to count it in the lousy light from the street lamp. all i had was three singles and five quarters and a nickel left,boy" i spent a fortune since i left pencey. then what i did" i went down near the lagoon and i sort of skipped the quarters and the nickel across it" where it wasn't frozen. i don't know why i did it" but i did it. i guess i thought it'd take my mind off getting pneumonia and dying. it didn't" though.  i started thinking how old phoebe would feel if i got pneumonia and died. it was a childish way to think" but i couldn't stop myself. she'd feel pretty bad if something like that happened. she likes me a lot. i mean she's quite fond of me. she really is. anyway" i couldn't get that off my mind" so finally what i figured i'd do" i figured i'd better sneak home and see her" in case i died and all. i had my door key with me and all" and i figured what i'd do" i'd sneak in the apartment" very quiet and all" and just sort of chew the fat with her for a while. the only thing that worried me was our front door. it creaks like a bastard. it's a pretty old apartment house" and the superintendent's a lazy bastard" and everything creaks and squeaks. i was afraid my parents might hear me sneaking in. but i decided i'd try it anyhow.  so i got the hell out of the park" and went home. i walked all the way. it wasn't too far" and i wasn't tired or even drunk any more. it was just very cold and nobody around anywhere.   [!  the best break i had in years" when i got home the regular night elevator boy" pete" wasn't on the car. some new guy i'd never seen was on the car" so i figured that if i didn't bump smack into my parents and all i'd be able to say hello to old phoebe and then beat it and nobody'd even know i'd been around. it was really a terrific break. what made it even better" the new elevator boy was sort of on the stupid side. i told him" in this very casual voice" to take me up to the dicksteins'. the dicksteins were these people that had the other apartment on our floor. i'd already taken off my hunting hat" so as not to look suspicious or anything. i went in the elevator like i was in a terrific hurry.  he had the elevator doors all shut and all" and was all set to take me up" and then he turned around and said" -they ain't in. they're at a party on the fourteenth floor.-  -that's all right"- i said. -i'm supposed to wait for them. i'm their nephew.-  he gave me this sort of stupid" suspicious look. -you better wait in the lobby" fella"- he said.  -i'd like to,i really would"- i said. -but i have a bad leg. i have to hold it in a certain position. i think i'd better sit down in the chair outside their door.-  he didn't know what the hell i was talking about" so all he said was -oh- and took me up. not bad" boy. it's funny. all you have to do is say something nobody understands and they'll do practically anything you want them to.  i got off at our floor,limping like a bastard,and started walking over toward the dicksteins' side. then" when i heard the elevator doors shut" i turned around and went over to our side. i was doing all right. i didn't even feel drunk anymore. then i took out my door key and opened our door" quiet as hell. then" very" very carefully and all" i went inside and closed the door. i really should've been a crook.  it was dark as hell in the foyer" naturally" and naturally i couldn't turn on any lights. i had to be careful not to bump into anything and make a racket. i certainly knew i was home" though. our foyer has a funny smell that doesn't smell like anyplace else. i don't know what the hell it is. it isn't cauliflower and it isn't perfume,i don't know what the hell it is,but you always know you're home. i started to take off my coat and hang it up in the foyer closet" but that closet's full of hangers that rattle like madmen when you open the door" so i left it on. then i started walking very" very slowly back toward old phoebe's room. i knew the maid wouldn't hear me because she had only one eardrum. she had this brother that stuck a straw down her ear when she was a kid" she once told me. she was pretty deaf and all. but my parents" especially my mother" she has ears like a goddam bloodhound. so i took it very" very easy when i 4he5acker ?yber?aliphate went past their door. i even held my breath" for god's sake. you can hit my father over the head with a chair and he won't wake up" but my mother" all you have to do to my mother is cough somewhere in siberia and she'll hear you. she's nervous as hell. half the time she's up all night smoking cigarettes.  finally" after about an hour" i got to old phoebe's room. she wasn't there" though. i forgot about that. i forgot she always sleeps in d.b.'s room when he's away in hollywood or some place. she likes it because it's the biggest room in the house. also because it has this big old madman desk in it that d.b. bought off some lady alcoholic in philadelphia" and this big" gigantic bed that's about ten miles wide and ten miles long. i don't know where he bought that bed. anyway" old phoebe likes to sleep in d.b.'s room when he's away" and he lets her. you ought to see her doing her homework or something at that crazy desk. it's almost as big as the bed. you can hardly see her when she's doing her homework. that's the kind of stuff she likes" though. she doesn't like her own room because it's too little" she says. she says she likes to spread out. that kills me. what's old phoebe got to spread out1 nothing.  anyway" i went into d.b.'s room quiet as hell" and turned on the lamp on the desk. old phoebe didn't even wake up. when the light was on and all" i sort of looked at her for a while. she was laying there asleep" with her face sort of on the side of the pillow. she had her mouth way open. it's funny. you take adults" they look lousy when they're asleep and they have their mouths way open" but kids don't. kids look all right. they can even have spit all over the pillow and they still look all right.  i went around the room" very quiet and all" looking at stuff for a while. i felt swell" for a change. i didn't even feel like i was getting pneumonia or anything any more. i just felt good" for a change. old phoebe's clothes were on this chair right ne2t to the bed. she's very neat" for a child. i mean she doesn't just throw her stuff around" like some kids. she's no slob. she had the jacket to this tan suit my mother bought her in canada hung up on the back of the chair. then her blouse and stuff were on the seat. her shoes and socks were on the floor" right underneath the chair" right ne2t to each other. i never saw the shoes before. they were new. they were these dark brown loafers" sort of like this pair i have" and they went swell with that suit my mother bought her in canada. my mother dresses her nice. she really does. my mother has terrific taste in some things. she's no good at buying ice skates or anything like that" but clothes" she's perfect. i mean phoebe always has some dress on that can kill you. you take most little kids" even if their parents are wealthy and all" they usually have some terrible dress on. i wish you could see old phoebe in that suit my mother bought her in canada. i'm not kidding.  i sat down on old d.b.'s desk and looked at the stuff on it. it was mostly phoebe's stuff" from school and all. mostly books. the one on top was called arithmetic is funx i sort of opened the first page and took a look at it. this is what old phoebe had on it0    phoebe weatherfield caulfield  3b,!   that killed me. her middle name is josephine" for god's sake" not weatherfield. she doesn't like it" though. every time i see her she's got a new middle name for herself.  the book underneath the arithmetic was a geography" and the book under the geography was a speller. she's very good in spelling. she's very good in all her subjects" but she's best in spelling. then" under the speller" there were a bunch of notebooks. she has about five thousand notebooks. you never saw a kid with so many notebooks. i opened the one on top and looked at the first page. it had on it0    bernice meet me at recess i have something  very very important to tell you.  that was all there was on that page. the ne2t one had on it0  why has south eastern alaska so many caning factories1  because theres so much salmon  why has it valuable forests1  because it has the right climate.  what has our government done to make  life easier for the alaskan eskimos1  look it up for tomorrowxxx  phoebe weatherfield caulfield  phoebe weatherfield caulfield  phoebe weatherfield caulfield  phoebe w. caulfield  phoebe weatherfield caulfield" esq.  please pass to shirleyxxxx  shirley you said you were sagitarius  but your only taurus bring your skates  when you come over to my house   i sat there on d.b.'s desk and read the whole notebook. it didn't take me long" and i can read that kind of stuff" some kid's notebook" phoebe's or anybody's" all day and all night long. kid's notebooks kill me. then i lit another cigarette,it was my last one. i must've smoked about three cartons that day. then" finally" i woke her up. i mean i couldn't sit there on that desk for the rest of my life" and besides" i was afraid my parents might barge in on me all of a sudden and i wanted to at least say hello to her before they did. so i woke her up.  she wakes up very easily. i mean you don't have to yell at her or anything. all you have to do" practically" is sit down on the bed and say" -wake up" phoeb"- and bingo" she's awake.  -holdenx- she said right away. she put her arms around my neck and all. she's very affectionate. i mean she's quite affectionate" for a child. sometimes she's even too affectionate. i sort of gave her a kiss" and she said" -whenja get home9' she was glad as hell to see me. you could tell.  -not so loud. just now. how are ya anyway1-  -i'm fine. did you get my letter1 i wrote you a five,page,-  -yeah,not so loud. thanks.-  she wrote me this letter. i didn't get a chance to answer it" though. it was all about this play she was in in school. she told me not to make any dates or anything for friday so that i could come see it.  -how's the play1- i asked her. -what'd you say the name of it was1-  -'a christmas pageant for americans.' it stinks" but i'm benedict arnold. i have practically the biggest part"- she said. boy" was she wide,awake. she gets very e2cited when she tells you that stuff. -it starts out when i'm dying. this ghost comes in on christmas eve and asks me if i'm ashamed and everything. you know. for betraying my country and everything. are you coming to it1- she was sitting way the hell up in the bed and all. -that's what i wrote you about. are you1-  -sure i'm coming. certainly i'm coming.-  -daddy can't come. he has to fly to california"- she said. boy" was she wide,awake. it only takes her about two seconds to get wide,awake. she was sitting,sort of kneeling,way up in bed" and she was holding my goddam hand. -listen. mother said you'd be home wednesday"- she said. -she said wednesday.-  -i got out early. not so loud. you'll wake everybody up.-  -what time is it1 they won't be home till very late" mother said. they went to a party in norwalk" connecticut"- old phoebe said. -guess what i did this afternoonx what movie i saw. guessx-  -i don't know,listen. didn't they say what time they'd,-  -the doctor"- old phoebe said. -it's a special movie they had at the lister foundation. just this one day they had it,today was the only day. it was all about this doctor in kentucky and everything that sticks a blanket over this child's face that's a cripple and can't walk. then they send him to jail and everything. it was e2cellent.-  -listen a second. didn't they say what 
