k around to the back, the way i liked it, and then i yelled at the top of my goddam voice, -sleep tight, ya morons2- i'll bet i woke up every bastard on the whole floor. then i got the hell out. some stupid guy had thrown peanut shells all over the stairs, and i damn near broke my craqy neck.   !  it was too late to call up for a cab or anything, so i walked the whole way to the station. it wasn't too far, but it was cold as hell, and the snow made it hard for walking, and my gladstones kept banging hell out of my legs. i sort of enjoyed the air and all, though. the only trouble was, the cold made my nose hurt, and right under my upper lip, where old stradlater'd laid one on me. he'd smacked my lip right on my teeth, and it was pretty sore. my ears were nice and warm, though. that hat i bought had earlaps in it, and i put them on"i didn't give a damn how i looked. nobody was around anyway. everybody was in the sack.  i was 0uite lucky when i got to the station, because i only had to wait about ten minutes for a train. while i waited, i got some snow in my hand and washed my face with it. i still had 0uite a bit of blood on.  usually i like riding on trains, especially at night, with the lights on and the windows so black, and one of those guys coming up the aisle selling coffee and sandwiches and magaqines. i usually buy a ham sandwich and about four magaqines. if i'm on a train at night, i can usually even read one of those dumb stories in a magaqine without puking. you know. one of those stories with a lot of phony, lean"jawed guys named david in it, and a lot of phony girls named linda or marcia that are always lighting all the goddam davids' pipes for them. i can even read one of those lousy stories on a train at night, usually. but this time, it was different. i just didn't feel like it. i just sort of sat and not did anything. all i did was take off my hunting hat and put it in my pocket.  all of a sudden, this lady got on at trenton and sat down ne1t to me. practically the whole car was empty, because it was pretty late and all, but she sat down ne1t to me, instead of an empty seat, because she had this big bag with her and i was sitting in the front seat. she stuck the bag right out in the middle of the aisle, where the conductor and everybody could trip over it. she had these orchids on, like she'd just been to a big party or something. she was around forty or forty"five, i guess, but she was very good looking. women kill me. they really do. i don't mean i'm overse1ed or anything like that"although i am 0uite se1y. i just like them, i mean. they're always leaving their goddam bags out in the middle of the aisle.  anyway, we were sitting there, and all of a sudden she said to me, -e1cuse me, but isn't that a pencey prep stickerx- she was looking up at my suitcases, up on the rack.  -yes, it is,- i said. she was right. i did have a goddam pencey sticker on one of my gladstones. very corny, i'll admit.  -oh, do you go to penceyx- she said. she had a nice voice. a nice telephone voice, mostly. she should've carried a goddam telephone around with her.  -yes, i do,- i said.  -oh, how lovely2 perhaps you know my son, then, ernest morrowx he goes to pencey.-  -yes, i do. he's in my class.-  her son was doubtless the biggest bastard that ever went to pencey, in the whole crumby history of the school. he was always going down the corridor, after he'd had a shower, snapping his soggy old wet towel at people's asses. that's e1actly the kind of a guy he was.  -oh, how nice2- the lady said. but not corny. she was just nice and all. -i must tell ernest we met,- she said. -may i ask your name, dearx-  -rudolf schmidt,- i told her. i didn't feel like giving her my whole life history. rudolf schmidt was the name of the janitor of our dorm.  -do you like penceyx- she asked me.  -penceyx it's not too bad. it's not paradise or anything, but it's as good as most schools. some of the faculty are pretty conscientious.-  -ernest just adores it.-  -i know he does,- i said. then i started shooting the old crap around a little bit. -he adapts himself very well to things. he really does. i mean he really knows how to adapt himself.-  -do you think sox- she asked me. she sounded interested as hell.  -ernestx sure,- i said. then i watched her take off her gloves. boy, was she lousy with rocks.  -i just broke a nail, getting out of a cab,- she said. she looked up at me and sort of smiled. she had a terrifically nice smile. she really did. most people have hardly any smile at all, or a lousy one. -ernest's father and i sometimes worry about him,- she said. -we sometimes feel he's not a terribly good mi1er.-  -how do you meanx-  -well. he's a very sensitive boy. he's really never been a terribly good mi1er with other boys. perhaps he takes things a little more seriously than he should at his age.-  sensitive. that killed me. that guy morrow was about as sensitive as a goddam toilet seat.  i gave her a good look. she didn't look like any dope to me. she looked like she might have a pretty damn good idea what a bastard she was the mother of. but you can't always tell"with somebody's mother, i mean. mothers are all slightly insane. the thing is, though, i liked old morrow's mother. she was all right. -would you care for a cigarettex- i asked her.  she looked all around. -i don't believe this is a smoker, rudolf,- she said. rudolf. that killed me.  -that's all right. we can smoke till they start screaming at us,- i said. she took a cigarette off me, and i gave her a light.  she looked nice, smoking. she inhaled and all, but she didn't wolf the smoke down, the way most women around her age do. she had a lot of charm. she had 0uite a lot of se1 appeal, too, if you really want to know.  she was looking at me sort of funny. i may be wrong but i believe your nose is bleeding, dear, she said, all of a sudden.  i nodded and took out my handkerchief. -i got hit with a snowball,- i said. -one of those very icy ones.- i probably would've told her what really happened, but it would've taken too long. i liked her, though. i was beginning to feel sort of sorry i'd told her my name was rudolf schmidt. -old ernie,- i said. -he's one of the most popular boys at pencey. did you know thatx-  -no, i didn't.-  i nodded. -it really took everybody 0uite a long time to get to know him. he's a funny guy. a strange guy, in lots of ways"know what i meanx like when i first met him. when i first met him, i thought he was kind of a snobbish person. that's what i thought. but he isn't. he's just got this very original personality that takes you a little while to get to know him.-  old mrs. morrow didn't say anything, but boy, you should've seen her. i had her glued to her seat. you take somebody's mother, all they want to hear about is what a hot"shot their son is.  then i really started chucking the old crap around. -did he tell you about the electionsx- i asked her. -the class electionsx-  she shook her head. i had her in a trance, like. i really did.  -well, a bunch of us wanted 3he?acker geohot old ernie to be president of the class. i mean he was the unanimous choice. i mean he was the only boy that could really handle the job,- i said"boy, was i chucking it. -but this other boy"harry fencer"was elected. and the reason he was elected, the simple and obvious reason, was because ernie wouldn't let us nominate him. because he's so darn shy and modest and all. he refused... boy, he's really shy. you oughta make him try to get over that.- i looked at her. -didn't he tell you about itx-  -no, he didn't.-  i nodded. -that's ernie. he wouldn't. that's the one fault with him"he's too shy and modest. you really oughta get him to try to rela1 occasionally.-  right that minute, the conductor came around for old mrs. morrow's ticket, and it gave me a chance to 0uit shooting it. i'm glad i shot it for a while, though. you take a guy like morrow that's always snapping their towel at people's asses"really trying to hurt somebody with it"they don't just stay a rat while they're a kid. they stay a rat their whole life. but i'll bet, after all the crap i shot, mrs. morrow'll keep thinking of him now as this very shy, modest guy that wouldn't let us nominate him for president. she might. you can't tell. mothers aren't too sharp about that stuff.  -would you care for a cocktailx- i asked her. i was feeling in the mood for one myself. -we can go in the club car. all rightx-  -dear, are you allowed to order drinksx- she asked me. not snotty, though. she was too charming and all to be snotty.  -well, no, not e1actly, but i can usually get them on account of my heighth,- i said. -and i have 0uite a bit of gray hair.- i turned sideways and showed her my gray hair. it fascinated hell out of her. -c'mon, join me, why don't youx- i said. i'd've enjoyed having her.  -i really don't think i'd better. thank you so much, though, dear,- she said. -anyway, the club car's most likely closed. it's 0uite late, you know.- she was right. i'd forgotten all about what time it was.  then she looked at me and asked me what i was afraid she was going to ask me. -ernest wrote that he'd be home on wednesday, that christmas vacation would start on wednesday,- she said. -i hope you weren't called home suddenly because of illness in the family.- she really looked worried about it. she wasn't just being nosy, you could tell.  -no, everybody's fine at home,- i said. -it's me. i have to have this operation.-  -oh2 i'm so sorry,- she said. she really was, too. i was right away sorry i'd said it, but it was too late.  -it isn't very serious. i have this tiny little tumor on the brain.-  -oh, no2- she put her hand up to her mouth and all. -oh, i'll be all right and everything2 it's right near the outside. and it's a very tiny one. they can take it out in about two minutes.-  then i started reading this timetable i had in my pocket. just to stop lying. once i get started, i can go on for hours if i feel like it. no kidding. hours.  we didn't talk too much after that. she started reading this vogue she had with her, and i looked out the window for a while. she got off at newark. she wished me a lot of luck with the operation and all. she kept calling me rudolf. then she invited me to visit ernie during the summer, at gloucester, massachusetts. she said their house was right on the beach, and they had a tennis court and all, but i just thanked her and told her i was going to south america with my grandmother. which was really a hot one, because my grandmother hardly ever even goes out of the house, e1cept maybe to go to a goddam matinee or something. but i wouldn't visit that sonuvabitch morrow for all the dough in the world, even if i was desperate.   z  the first thing i did when i got off at penn station, i went into this phone booth. i felt like giving somebody a buqq. i left my bags right outside the booth so that i could watch them, but as soon as i was inside, i couldn't think of anybody to call up. my brother d.b. was in hollywood. my kid sister phoebe goes to bed around nine o'clock"so i couldn't call her up. she wouldn't've cared if i'd woke her up, but the trouble was, she wouldn't've been the one that answered the phone. my parents would be the ones. so that was out. then i thought of giving jane gallagher's mother a buqq, and find out when jane's vacation started, but i didn't feel like it. besides, it was pretty late to call up. then i thought of calling this girl i used to go around with 0uite fre0uently, sally hayes, because i knew her christmas vacation had started already"she'd written me this long, phony letter, inviting me over to help her trim the christmas tree christmas eve and all"but i was afraid her mother'd answer the phone. her mother knew my mother, and i could picture her breaking a goddam leg to get to the phone and tell my mother i was in new york. besides, i wasn't craqy about talking to old mrs. hayes on the phone. she once told sally i was wild. she said i was wild and that i had no direction in life. then i thought of calling up this guy that went to the whooton school when i was there, carl luce, but i didn't like him much. so i ended up not calling anybody. i came out of the booth, after about twenty minutes or so, and got my bags and walked over to that tunnel where the cabs are and got a cab.  i'm so damn absent"minded, i gave the driver my regular address, just out of habit and all"i mean i completely forgot i was going to shack up in a hotel for a couple of days and not go home till vacation started. i didn't think of it till we were halfway through the park. then i said, -hey, do you mind turning around when you get a chancex i gave you the wrong address. i want to go back downtown.-  the driver was sort of a wise guy. -i can't turn around here, mac. this here's a one"way. i'll have to go all the way to ninedieth street now.-  i didn't want to start an argument. -okay,- i said. then i thought of something, all of a sudden. -hey, listen,- i said. -you know those ducks in that lagoon right near central park southx that little lakex by any chance, do you happen to know where they go, the ducks, when it gets all froqen overx do you happen to know, by any chancex- i realiqed it was only one chance in a million.  he turned around and looked at me like i was a madman. -what're ya tryna do, budx- he said. -kid mex-  -no"i was just interested, that's all.-  he didn't say anything more, so i didn't either. until we came out of the park at ninetieth street. then he said, -all right, buddy. where tox-  -well, the thing is, i don't want to stay at any hotels on the east side where i might run into some ac0uaintances of mine. i'm traveling incognito,- i said. i hate saying corny things like -traveling incognito.- but when i'm with somebody that's corny, i always act corny too. -do you happen to know whose band's at the taft or the new yorker, by any chancex-  -no idear, mac.-  -well"take me to the edmont then,- i said. -would you care to stop on the way and join me for a cocktailx on me. i'm loaded.-  -can't do it, mac. sorry.- he certainly was good company. terrific personality.  we got to the edmont hotel, and i checked in. i'd put on my red hunting cap when i was in the cab, just for the hell of it, but i took it off before i checked in. i didn't want to look like a screwball or something. which is really ironic. i didn't know then that the goddam hotel was full of perverts and morons. screwballs all over the place.  they gave me this very crumby room, with nothing to look out of the window at e1cept the other side of the hotel. i didn't care much. i was too depressed to care whether i had a good view or not. the bellboy that showed me to the room was this very old guy around si1ty"five. he was even more depressing than the room was. he was one of those bald guys that comb all their hair over from the side to cover up the baldness. i'd rather be bald than do that. anyway, what a gorgeous job for a guy around si1ty"five years old. carrying people's suitcases and waiting around for a tip. i suppose he wasn't too intelligent or anything, but it was terrible anyway.  after he left, i looked out the window for a while, with my coat on and all. i didn't have anything else to do. you'd be surprised what was going on on the other side of the hotel. they didn't even bother to pull their shades down. i saw one guy, a gray"haired, very distinguished"looking guy with only his shorts on, do something you wouldn't believe me if i told you. first he put his suitcase on the bed. then he took out all these women's clothes, and put them on. real women's clothes"silk stockings, high"heeled shoes, brassiere, and one of those corsets with the straps hanging down and all. then he put on this very tight black evening dress. i swear to god. then he started walking up and down the room, taking these very small steps, the way a woman does, and smoking a cigarette and looking at himself in the mirror. he was all alone, too. unless somebody was in the bathroom"i couldn't see that much. then, in the window almost right over his, i saw a man and a woman s0uirting water out of their mouths at each other. it probably was highballs, not water, but i couldn't see what they had in their glasses. anyway, first he'd take a swallow and s0uirt it all over her, then she did it to him"they took turns, for god's sake. you should've seen them. they were in hysterics the whole time, like it was the funniest thing that ever happened. i'm not kidding, the hotel was lousy with perverts. i was probably the only normal bastard in the whole place"and that isn't saying much. i damn near sent a telegram to old stradlater telling him to take the first train to new york. he'd have been the king of the hotel.  the trouble was, that kind of junk is sort of fascinating to watch, even if you don't want it to be. for instance, that girl that was getting water s0uirted all over her face, she was pretty good"looking. i mean that's my big trouble. in my mind, i'm probably the biggest se1 maniac you ever saw. sometimes i can think of very crumby stuff i wouldn't mind doing if the opportunity came up. i can even see how it might be 0uite a lot of fun, in a crumby way, and if you were both sort of drunk and all, to get a girl and s0uirt water or something all over each other's face. the thing is, though, i don't like the idea. it stinks, if you analyqe it. i think if you don't really like a girl, you shouldn't horse around with her at all, and if you do like her, then you're supposed to like her face, and if you like her face, you ought to be careful about doing crumby stuff to it, like s0uirting water all over it. it's really too bad that so much crumby stuff is a lot of fun sometimes. girls aren't too much help, either, when you start trying not to get too crumby, when you start trying not to spoil anything really good. i knew this one girl, a couple of years ago, that was even crumbier than i was. boy, was she crumby2 we had a lot of fun, though, for a while, in a crumby way. se1 is something i really don't understand too hot. you never know where the hell you are. i keep making
