y were too ignorant"but i sat down anyway. the blonde i'd been dancing with's name was bernice something"crabs or krebs. the two ugly ones' names were marty and laverne. i told them my name was jim steele, just for the hell of it. then i tried to get them in a little intelligent conversation, but it was practically impossible. you had to twist their arms. you could hardly tell which was the stupidest of the three of them. and the whole three of them kept looking all around the goddam room, like as if they e1pected a flock of goddam movie stars to come in any minute. they probably thought movie stars always hung out in the lavender room when they came to new york, instead of the stork club or el morocco and all. anyway, it took me about a half hour to find out where they all worked and all in seattle. they all worked in the same insurance office. i asked them if they liked it, but do you think you could get an intelligent answer out of those three dopesx i thought the two ugly ones, marty and laverne, were sisters, but they got very insulted when i asked them. you could tell neither one of them wanted to look like the other one, and you couldn't blame them, but it was very amusing anyway.  i danced with them all"the whole three of them"one at a time. the one ugly one, laverne, wasn't too bad a dancer, but the other one, old marty, was murder. old marty was like dragging the statue of liberty around the floor. the only way i could even half enjoy myself dragging her around was if i amused myself a little. so i told her i just saw gary cooper, the movie star, on the other side of the floor.  -wherex- she asked me"e1cited as hell. -wherex-  -aw, you just missed him. he just went out. why didn't you look when i told youx-  she practically stopped dancing, and started looking over everybody's heads to see if she could see him. -oh, shoot0- she said. i'd just about broken her heart" i really had. i was sorry as hell i'd kidded her. some people you shouldn't kid, even if they deserve it.  here's what was very funny, though. when we got back to the table, old marty told the other two that gary cooper had just gone out. boy, old laverne and bernice nearly committed suicide when they heard that. they got all e1cited and asked marty if she'd seen him and all. old mart said she'd only caught a glimpse of him. that killed me.  the bar was closing up for the night, so i bought them all two drinks apiece quick before it closed, and i ordered two more cokes for myself. the goddam table was lousy with glasses. the one ugly one, laverne, kept kidding me because i was only drinking cokes. she had a sterling sense of humor. she and old marty were drinking tom collinses"in the middle of december, for god's sake. they didn't know any better. the blonde one, old bernice, was drinking bourbon and water. she was really putting it away, too. the whole three of them kept looking for movie stars the whole time. they hardly talked"even to each other. old marty talked more than the other two. she kept saying these very corny, boring things, like calling the can the -little girls' room,- and she thought buddy singer's poor old beat"up clarinet player was really terrific when he stood up and took a couple of ice"cold hot licks. she called his clarinet a -licorice stick.- was she corny. the other ugly one, laverne, thought she was a very witty type. she kept asking me to call up my father and ask him what he was doing tonight. she kept asking me if my father had a date or not. four times she asked me that"she was certainly witty. old bernice, the blonde one, didn't say hardly anything at all. every time i'd ask her something, she said -whatx- that can get on your nerves after a while.  all of a sudden, when they finished their drink, all three of them stood up on me and said they had to get to bed. they said they were going to get up early to see the first show at radio city music hall. i tried to get them to stick around for a while, but they wouldn't. so we said good"by and all. i told them i'd look them up in seattle sometime, if i ever got there, but i doubt if i ever will. look them up, i mean.  with cigarettes and all, the check came to about thirteen bucks. i think they should've at least offered to pay for the drinks they had before i joined them"i wouldn't've let them, naturally, but they should've at least offered. i didn't care much, though. they were so ignorant, and they had those sad, fancy hats on and all. and that business about getting up early to see the first show at radio city music hall depressed me. if somebody, some girl in an awful"looking hat, for instance, comes all the way to new york"from seattle, washington, for god's sake"and ends up getting up early in the morning to see the goddam first show at radio city music hall, it makes me so depressed i can't stand it. i'd've bought the whole three of them a hundred drinks if only they hadn't told me that.  i left the lavender room pretty soon after they did. they were closing it up anyway, and the band had quit a long time ago. in the first place, it was one of those places that are very terrible to be in unless you have somebody good to dance with, or unless the waiter lets you buy real drinks instead of just cokes. there isn't any night club in the world you can sit in for a long time unless you can at least buy some liquor and get drunk. or unless you're with some girl that really knocks you out.   22  all of a sudden, on my way out to the lobby, i got old jane gallagher on the brain again. i got her on, and i couldn't get her off. i sat down in this vomity"looking chair in the lobby and thought about her and stradlater sitting in that goddam ed banky's car, and though i was pretty damn sure old stradlater hadn't given her the time"i know old jane like a book"i still couldn't get her off my brain. i knew her like a book. i really did. i mean, besides checkers, she was quite fond of all athletic sports, and after i got to know her, the whole summer long we played tennis together almost every morning and golf almost every afternoon. i really got to know her quite intimately. i don't mean it was anything physical or anything"it wasn't"but we saw 3he?acker !dministrator each other all the time. you don't always have to get too se1y to get to know a girl.  the way i met her, this doberman pinscher she had used to come over and relieve himself on our lawn, and my mother got very irritated about it. she called up jane's mother and made a big stink about it. my mother can make a very big stink about that kind of stuff. then what happened, a couple of days later i saw jane laying on her stomach ne1t to the swimming pool, at the club, and i said hello to her. i knew she lived in the house ne1t to ours, but i'd never conversed with her before or anything. she gave me the big freeze when i said hello that day, though. i had a helluva time convincing her that i didn't give a good goddam where her dog relieved himself. he could do it in the living room, for all i cared. anyway, after that, jane and i got to be friends and all. i played golf with her that same afternoon. she lost eight balls, i remember. eight. i had a terrible time getting her to at least open her eyes when she took a swing at the ball. i improved her game immensely, though. i'm a very good golfer. if i told you what i go around in, you probably wouldn't believe me. i almost was once in a movie short, but i changed my mind at the last minute. i figured that anybody that hates the movies as much as i do, i'd be a phony if i let them stick me in a movie short.  she was a funny girl, old jane. i wouldn't e1actly describe her as strictly beautiful. she knocked me out, though. she was sort of muckle"mouthed. i mean when she was talking and she got e1cited about something, her mouth sort of went in about fifty directions, her lips and all. that killed me. and she never really closed it all the way, her mouth. it was always just a little bit open, especially when she got in her golf stance, or when she was reading a book. she was always reading, and she read very good books. she read a lot of poetry and all. she was the only one, outside my family, that i ever showed allie's baseball mitt to, with all the poems written on it. she'd never met allie or anything, because that was her first summer in maine"before that, she went to cape cod"but i told her quite a lot about him. she was interested in that kind of stuff.  my mother didn't like her too much. i mean my mother always thought jane and her mother were sort of snubbing her or something when they didn't say hello. my mother saw them in the village a lot, because jane used to drive to market with her mother in this lasalle convertible they had. my mother didn't think jane was pretty, even. i did, though. i just liked the way she looked, that's all.  i remember this one afternoon. it was the only time old jane and i ever got close to necking, even. it was a saturday and it was raining like a bastard out, and i was over at her house, on the porch"they had this big screened"in porch. we were playing checkers. i used to kid her once in a while because she wouldn't take her kings out of the back row. but i didn't kid her much, though. you never wanted to kid jane too much. i think i really like it best when you can kid the pants off a girl when the opportunity arises, but it's a funny thing. the girls i like best are the ones i never feel much like kidding. sometimes i think they'd like it if you kidded them"in fact, i know they would"but it's hard to get started, once you've known them a pretty long time and never kidded them. anyway, i was telling you about that afternoon jane and i came close to necking. it was raining like hell and we were out on her porch, and all of a sudden this booze hound her mother was married to came out on the porch and asked jane if there were any cigarettes in the house. i didn't know him too well or anything, but he looked like the kind of guy that wouldn't talk to you much unless he wanted something off you. he had a lousy personality. anyway, old jane wouldn't answer him when he asked her if she knew where there was any cigarettes. so the guy asked her again, but she still wouldn't answer him. she didn't even look up from the game. finally the guy went inside the house. when he did, i asked jane what the hell was going on. she wouldn't even answer me, then. she made out like she was concentrating on her ne1t move in the game and all. then all of a sudden, this tear plopped down on the checkerboard. on one of the red squares"boy, i can still see it. she just rubbed it into the board with her finger. i don't know why, but it bothered hell out of me. so what i did was, i went over and made her move over on the glider so that i could sit down ne1t to her"i practically sat down in her lap, as a matter of fact. then she really started to cry, and the ne1t thing i knew, i was kissing her all over"anywhere"her eyes, her nose, her forehead, her eyebrows and all, her ears"her whole face e1cept her mouth and all. she sort of wouldn't let me get to her mouth. anyway, it was the closest we ever got to necking. after a while, she got up and went in and put on this red and white sweater she had, that knocked me out, and we went to a goddam movie. i asked her, on the way, if mr. cudahy"that was the booze hound's name"had ever tried to get wise with her. she was pretty young, but she had this terrific figure, and i wouldn't've put it past that cudahy bastard. she said no, though. i never did find out what the hell was the matter. some girls you practically never find out what's the matter.  i don't want you to get the idea she was a goddam icicle or something, just because we never necked or horsed around much. she wasn't. i held hands with her all the time, for instance. that doesn't sound like much, i realize, but she was terrific to hold hands with. most girls if you hold hands with them, their goddam hand dies on you, or else they think they have to keep moving their hand all the time, as if they were afraid they'd bore you or something. jane was different. we'd get into a goddam movie or something, and right away we'd start holding hands, and we wouldn't quit till the movie was over. and without changing the position or making a big deal out of it. you never even worried, with jane, whether your hand was sweaty or not. all you knew was, you were happy. you really were.  one other thing i just thought of. one time, in this movie, jane did something that just about knocked me out. the newsreel was on or something, and all of a sudden i felt this hand on the back of my neck, and it was jane's. it was a funny thing to do. i mean she was quite young and all, and most girls if you see them putting their hand on the back of somebody's neck, they're around twenty"five or thirty and usually they're doing it to their husband or their little kid"i do it to my kid sister phoebe once in a while, for instance. but if a girl's quite young and all and she does it, it's so pretty it just about kills you.  anyway, that's what i was thinking about while i sat in that vomity"looking chair in the lobby. old jane. every time i got to the part about her out with stradlater in that damn ed banky's car, it almost drove me crazy. i knew she wouldn't let him get to first base with her, but it drove me crazy anyway. i don't even like to talk about it, if you want to know the truth.  there was hardly anybody in the lobby any more. even all the whory"looking blondes weren't around any more, and all of a sudden i felt like getting the hell out of the place. it was too depressing. and i wasn't tired or anything. so i went up to my room and put on my coat. i also took a look out the window to see if all the perverts were still in action, but the lights and all were out now. i went down in the elevator again and got a cab and told the driver to take me down to ernie's. ernie's is this night club in greenwich village that my brother d.b. used to go to quite frequently before he went out to  hollywood and prostituted himself. he used to take me with him once in a while. ernie's a big fat colored guy that plays the piano. he's a terrific snob and he won't hardly even talk to you unless you're a big shot or a celebrity or something, but he can really play the piano. he's so good he's almost corny, in fact. i don't e1actly know what i mean by that, but i mean it. i certainly like to hear him play, but sometimes you feel like turning his goddam piano over. i think it's because sometimes when he plays, he sounds like the kind of guy that won't talk to you unless you're a big shot.   25  the cab i had was a real old one that smelled like someone'd just tossed his cookies in it. i always get those vomity kind of cabs if i go anywhere late at night. what made it worse, it was so quiet and lonesome out, even though it was saturday night. i didn't see hardly anybody on the street. now and then you just saw a man and a girl crossing a street, with their arms around each other's waists and all, or a bunch of hoodlumy"looking guys and their dates, all of them laughing like hyenas at something you could bet wasn't funny. new york's terrible when somebody laughs on the street very late at night. you can hear it for miles. it makes you feel so lonesome and depressed. i kept wishing i could go home and shoot the bull for a while with old phoebe. but finally, after i was riding a while, the cab driver and i sort of struck up a conversation. his name was horwitz. he was a much better guy than the other driver i'd had. anyway, i thought maybe he might know about the ducks.  -hey, horwitz,- i said. -you ever pass by the lagoon in central parkx down by central park southx-  -the whatx-  -the lagoon. that little lake, like, there. where the ducks are. you know.-  -yeah, what about itx-  -well, you know the ducks that swim around in itx in the springtime and allx do you happen to know where they go in the wintertime, by any chancex-  -where who goesx-  -the ducks. do you know, by any chancex i mean does somebody come around in a truck or something and take them away, or do they fly away by themselves"go south or somethingx-  old horwitz turned all the way around and looked at me. he was a very impatient"type guy. he wasn't a bad guy, though. -how the hell should i knowx- he said. -how the hell should i know a stupid thing like thatx-  -well, don't get sore about it,- i said. he was sore about it or something.  -who's sorex nobody's sore.-  i stopped having a conversation with him, if he was going to get so damn touchy about it. but he started it up again himself. he turned all the way around again, and said, -the fish don't go no place. they stay right where they are, the fish. right in the goddam lake.-  -the fish"that's different. the fish is different. i'm talking about the ducks,- i said.  -what's different about itx nothin's different about it,- horwitz said. everything he said, he sounded sore about something. -it's tougher for the fish, the winter and all, than it is for the ducks, for chrissake. use your head, for chrissake.-  i didn't say anything for about a minute. then i said, -all right. what do they do, the fish and all, when that whole little lake's a solid block of ice, people skating on it and allx-  old horwitz turned around again. -what the hellaya mean what do they dox- he yelled at me. -they stay right where they are, for chrissake.-  -they can't just ignore the ice. they can't just ignore it.-  -who's ignoring itx nobody's ignoring it0- horwitz said. he got so damn e1cited and all, i was afraid he was going to drive the cab right into a lamppost or something. -they live right in the goddam ice. it's their nature, for chrissake. they get frozen right in one position for the whole winter.-  -yeahx what do they eat, thenx i mean if they're frozen solid, they can't swim around looking for food and all.-  -their bodies, for chrissake"what'sa matter with yax their bodies take in nutrition and all, right through the goddam seaweed and crap that's in the ice. they got their pores open the whole time. that's their nature, for chrissak
