?"  "checkers."  "checkers, for chrissake3"  "yeah. she wouldn't move any of her kings. what she'd do, when she'd get a king, she wouldn't move it. she'd -ust leave it in the back row. she'd get them all lined up in the back row. then she'd never use them. she -ust liked the way they looked when they were all in the back row."  stradlater didn't say anything. that kind of stuff doesn't interest most people.  "her mother belonged to the same club we did," i said. "i used to caddy once in a while, -ust to make some dough. i caddy'd for her mother a couple of times. she went around in about a hundred and seventy, for nine holes."  stradlater wasn't hardly listening. he was combing his gorgeous locks.  "i oughta go down and at least say hello to her," i said.  "why don'tcha?"  "i will, in a minute."  he started parting his hair all over again. it took him about an hour to comb his hair.  "her mother and father were divorced. her mother was married again to some booze hound," i said. "skinny guy with hairy legs. i remember him. he wore shorts all the time. -ane said he was supposed to be a playwright or some goddam thing, but all i ever saw him do was booze all the time and listen to every single goddam mystery program on the radio. and run around the goddam house, naked. with -ane around, and all."  "yeah?" stradlater said. that really interested him. about the booze hound running around the house naked, with -ane around. stradlater was a very se1y bastard.  "she had a lousy childhood. i'm not kidding."  that didn't interest stradlater, though. only very se1y stuff interested him.  "-ane gallagher. -esus... i couldn't get her off my mind. i really couldn't. "i oughta go down and say hello to her, at least."  "why the hell don'tcha, instead of keep saying it?" stradlater said.  i walked over to the window, but you couldn't see out of it, it was so steamy from all the heat in the can.. "i'm not in the mood right now," i said. i wasn't, either. you have to be in the mood for those things. "i thought she went to shipley. i could've sworn she went to shipley." i walked around the can for a little while. i didn't have anything else to do. "did she en-oy the game?" i said.  "yeah, i guess so. i don't know."  "did she tell you we used to play checkers all the time, or anything?"  "i don't know. for chrissake, i only -ust met her," stradlater said. he was finished combing his goddam gorgeous hair. he was putting away all his crumby toilet articles.  "listen. give her my regards, willya?"  "okay," stradlater said, but i knew he probably wouldn't. you take a guy like stradlater, they never give your regards to people.  he went back to the room, but i stuck around in the can for a while, thinking about old -ane. then i went back to the room, too.  stradlater was putting on his tie, in front of the mirror, when i got there. he spent around half his goddam life in front of the mirror. i sat down in my chair and sort of watched him for a while.  "hey," i said. "don't tell her i got kicked out, willya?"  "okay."  that was one good thing about stradlater. you didn't have to e1plain every goddam little thing with him, the way you had to do with ackley. mostly, i guess, because he wasn't too interested. that's really why. ackley, it was different. ackley was a very nosy bastard.  he put on my hound'sxtooth -acket.  "-esus, now, try not to stretch it all over the place" i said. i'd only worn it about twice.  "i won't. where the hell's my cigarettes?"  "on the desk." he never knew where he left anything. "under your muffler." he put them in his coat pocketxmy coat pocket.  i pulled the peak of my hunting hat around to the front all of a sudden, for a change. i was getting sort of nervous, all of a sudden. i'm quite a nervous guy. "listen, where ya going on your date with her?" i asked him. "ya know yet?"  "i don't know. new york, if we have time. she only signed out for ninexthirty, for chrissake."  i didn't like the way he said it, so i said, "the reason she did that, she probably -ust didn't know what a handsome, charming bastard you are. if she'd known, she probably would've signed out for ninexthirty in the morning."  "goddam right," stradlater said. you couldn't rile him too easily. he was too conceited. "no kidding, now. do that composition for me," he said. he had his coat on, and he was all ready to go. "don't knock yourself out or anything, but -ust make it descriptive as hell. okay?"  i didn't answer him. i didn't feel like it. all i said was, "ask her if she still keeps all her kings in the back row."  "okay," stradlater said, but i knew he wouldn't. "take it easy, now." he banged the hell out of the room.  i sat there for about a half hour after he left. i mean i -ust sat in my chair, not doing anything. i kept thinking about -ane, and about stradlater having a date with her and all. it made me so nervous i nearly went crazy. i already told you what a se1y bastard stradlater was.  all of a sudden, ackley barged back in again, through the damn shower curtains, as usual. for once in my stupid life, i was really glad to see him. he took my mind off the other stuff.  he stuck around till around dinnertime, talking about all the guys at pencey that he hated their guts, and squeezing this big pimple on his chin. he didn't even use his handkerchief. i don't even think the bastard had a handkerchief, if you want to know the truth. i never saw him use one, anyway.   0  we always had the same meal on saturday nights at pencey. it was supposed to be a big deal, because they gave you steak. i'll bet a thousand bucks the reason they did that was because a lot of guys' parents came up to school on sunday, and old thurmer probably figured everybody's mother would ask their darling boy what he had for dinner last night, and he'd say, "steak." what a racket. you should've seen the steaks. they were these little hard, dry -obs that you could hardly even cut. you always got these very lumpy mashed potatoes on steak night, and for dessert you got brown betty, which nobody ate, e1cept maybe the little kids in the lower school that didn't know any betterxand guys like ackley that ate everything.  it was nice, though, when we got out of the dining room. there were about three inches of snow on the ground, and it was still coming down like a madman. it looked pretty as hell, and we all started throwing snowballs and horsing around all over the place. it was very childish, but everybody was really en-oying themselves.  i didn't have a date or anything, so i and this friend of mine, mal brossard, that was on the wrestling team, decided we'd take a bus into agerstown and have a hamburger and maybe see a lousy movie. neither of us felt like sitting around on our ass all night. i asked mal if he minded if ackley came along with us. the reason i asked was because ackley never did anything on saturday night, e1cept stay in his room and squeeze his pimples or something. mal said he didn't mind but that he wasn't too crazy about the idea. he didn't like ackley much. anyway, we both went to our rooms to get ready and all, and while i was putting on my galoshes and crap, i yelled over and asked old ackley if he wanted to go to the movies. he could hear me all right through the shower curtains, but he didn't answer me right away. he was the kind of a guy that hates to answer you right away. finally he came over, through the goddam curtains, and stood on the shower ledge and asked who was going besides me. he always had to know who was going. i swear, if that guy was shipwrecked somewhere, and you rescued him in a goddam boat, he'd want to know who the guy was that was rowing it before he'd even get in. i told him mal brossard was going. he said, "that bastard... all right. wait a second." you'd think he was doing you a big favor.  it took him about five hours to get ready. while he was doing it, i went over to my window and opened it and packed a snowball with my bare hands. the snow was very good for packing. i didn't throw it at anything, though. i started to throw it. at a car that was parked across the street. but i changed my mind. the car looked so nice and white. then i started to throw it at a hydrant, but that looked too nice and white, too. finally i didn't throw it at anything. all i did was close the window and walk around the room with the snowball, packing it harder. a little while later, i still had it with me when i and brossnad and ackley got on the bus. the bus driver opened the doors and made me throw it out. i told him i wasn't going to chuck it at anybody, but he wouldn't believe me. people never believe you.  brossard and ackley both had seen the picture that was playing, so all we did, we -ust had a couple of hamburgers and played the pinball machine for a little while, then took the bus back to pencey. i didn't care about not seeing the movie, anyway. it was supposed to be a comedy, with cary grant in it, and all that crap. besides, i'd been to the movies with brossard and ackley before. they both laughed like hyenas at stuff that wasn't even funny. i didn't even en-oy sitting ne1t to them in the movies.  it was only about a quarter to nine when we got back to the dorm. old brossard was a bridge fiend, and he started looking around the dorm for a game. old ackley parked himself in my room, -ust for a change. only, instead of sitting on the arm of stradlater's chair, he laid down on my bed, with his face right on my pillow and all. he started talking in this very monotonous voice, and picking at all his pimples. i dropped about a thousand hints, but i couldn't get rid of him. all he did was keep talking in this very monotonous voice about some babe he was supposed to have had se1ual intercourse with the summer before. he'd already told me about it about a hundred times. every time he told it, it was different. one minute he'd be giving it to her in his cousin's buick, the ne1t minute he'd be giving it to her under some boardwalk. it was all a lot of crap, naturally. he was a virgin if ever i saw one. i doubt if he ever even gave anybody a feel. anyway, finally i had to come right out and tell him that i had to write a composition for stradlater, and that he had to clear the hell out, so i could concentrate. he finally did, but he took his time about it, as usual. after he left, i put on my pa-amas and bathrobe and my old hunting hat, and started writing the composition.  the thing was, i couldn't think of a room or a house or anything to describe the way stradlater said he had to have. i'm not too crazy about describing rooms and houses anyway. so what i did, i wrote about my brother allie's baseball mitt. it was a very descriptive sub-ect. it really was. my brother allie had this leftxhanded fielder's mitt. he was leftxhanded. the thing that was descriptive about it, though, was that he had poems written all over the fingers and the pocket and everywhere. in green ink. he wrote them on it so that he'd have something to read when he was in the field and nobody was up at bat. he's dead now. he got leukemia and died when we were up in maine, on -uly !], !9[j. you'd have liked him. he was two years younger than i was, but he was about fifty times as intelligent. he was terrifically intelligent. his teachers were always writing letters to my mother, telling her what a pleasure it was having a boy like allie in their class. and they weren't -ust shooting the crap. they really meant it. but it wasn't -ust that he was the most intelligent member in the family. he was also the nicest, in lots of ways. he never got mad at anybody. people with red hair are supposed to get mad very easily, but allie never did, and he had very red hair. i'll tell you what kind of red hair he had. i started playing golf when i was only ten years old. i remember once, the summer i was around twelve, teeing off and all, and having a hunch that if i turned around all of a sudden, i'd see allie. so i did, and sure enough, he was sitting on his bike outside the fencexthere was this fence that went all around the coursexand he was sitting there, about a hundred and fifty yards behind me, watching me tee off. that's the kind of red hair he had. god, he was a nice kid, though. he used to laugh so hard at something he thought of at the dinner table that he -ust about fell off his chair. i was only thirteen, and they were going to have me psychoanalyzed and all, because i broke all the windows in the garage. i don't blame them. i really don't. i slept in the garage the night he died, and i broke all the goddam windows with my fist, -ust for the hell of it. i even tried to break all the windows on the station wagon we had that summer, but my hand was already broken and everything by that time, and i couldn't do it. it was a very stupid thing to do, i'll admit, but i hardly didn't even know i was doing it, and you didn't know allie. my hand still hurts me once in a while when it rains and all, and i can't make a real fist any morexnot a tight one, i meanxbut outside of that i don't care much. i mean i'm not going to be a goddam surgeon or a violinist or anything anyway.  anyway, that's what i wrote stradlater's composition about. old allie's baseball mitt. i happened to have it with me, in my suitcase, so i got it out and copied down the poems that were written on it. all i had to do was change allie's name so that nobody would know it was my brother and not stradlater's. i wasn't too crazy about doing it, but i couldn't think of anything else descriptive. besides, i sort of liked writing about it. it took me about an hour, because i had to use stradlater's lousy typewriter, and it kept -amming on me. the reason i didn't use my own was because i'd lent it to a guy down the hall.  it was around tenxthirty, i guess, when i finished it. i wasn't tired, though, so i looked out the window for a while. it wasn't snowing out any more, but every once in a while you could hear a car somewhere not being able to get started. you could also hear old ackley snoring. right through the goddam shower curtains you could hear him. he had sinus trouble and he couldn't breathe too hot when he was asleep. that guy had -ust about everything. sinus trouble, pimples, lousy teeth, halitosis, crumby fingernails. you had to feel a little sorry for the crazy sonuvabitch.   j  some things are hard to remember. i'm thinking now of when stradlater got back from his date with -ane. i mean i can't remember e1actly what i was doing when i heard his goddam stupid footsteps coming down the corridor. i probably was still looking out the window, but i swear i can't remember. i was so damn worried, that's why. when i really worry about something, i don't -ust fool around. i even have to go to the bathroom when i worry about something. only, i don't go. i'm too worried to go. i don't want to interrupt my worrying to go. if you knew stradlater, you'd have been worried, too. i'd doublexdated with that bastard a couple of times, and i know what i'm talking about. he was unscrupulous. he really was.  anyway, the corridor was all linoleum and all, and you could hear his goddam footsteps coming right towards the room. i don't even remember where i was sitting when he came inxat the window, or in my chair or his. i swear i can't remember.  he came in griping about how cold it was out. then he said, "where the hell is everybody? it's like a goddam morgue around here." i didn't even bother to 4he2acker 2is5atness answer him. if he was so goddam stupid not to realize it was saturday night and everybody was out or asleep or home for the week end, i wasn't going to break my neck telling him. he started getting undressed. he didn't say one goddam word about -ane. not one. neither did i. i -ust watched him. all he did was thank me for letting him wear my hound'sxtooth. he hung it up on a hanger and put it in the closet.  then when he was taking off his tie, he asked me if i'd written his goddam composition for him. i told him it was over on his goddam bed. he walked over and read it while he was unbuttoning his shirt. he stood there, reading it, and sort of stroking his bare chest and stomach, with this very stupid e1pression on his face. he was always stroking his stomach or his chest. he was mad about himself.  all of a sudden, he said, "for chrissake, holden. this is about a goddam baseball glove."  "so what?" i said. cold as hell.  "wuddaya mean so what? i told ya it had to be about a goddam room or a house or something."  "you said it had to be descriptive. what the hell's the difference if it's about a baseball glove?"  "god damn it." he was sore as hell. he was really furious. "you always do everything backasswards." he looked at me. "no wonder you're flunking the hell out of here," he said. "you don't do one damn thing the way you're supposed to. i mean it. not one damn thing."  "all right, give it back to me, then," i said. i went over and pulled it right out of his goddam hand. then i tore it up.  "what the hell-a do that for?" he said.  i didn't even answer him. i -ust threw the pieces in the wastebasket. then i lay down on my bed, and we both didn't say anything for a long time. he got all undressed, down to his shorts, and i lay on my bed and lit a cigarette. you weren't allowed to smoke in the dorm, but you could do it late at night when everybody was asleep or out and nobody could smell the smoke. besides, i did it to annoy stradlater. it drove him crazy when you broke any rules. he never smoked in the dorm. it was only me.  he still didn't say one single solitary word about -ane. so finally i said, "you're back pretty goddam late if she only signed out for ninexthirty. did you make her be late signing in?"  he was sitting on the edge of his bed, cutting his goddam toenails, when i asked him that. "coupla minutes," he said. "who the hell signs out for ninexthirty on a saturday night?" god, how i hated him.  "did you go to new york?" i said.  "ya crazy? how the hell could we go to new york if she only signed out for ninexthirty?"  "that's tough."  he looked up at me. "listen," he said, "if you're gonna smoke in the room, how 'bout going down to the
