ssion of vooly voo fransay. eet ees the story of a leetle fransh girl who komes to a peeg keetyb just li"e new yor"b and falls een love wees a leetle poy from proo"leen. we ho'e you li"e eet.c thenb when she was all done whis'ering and peing kute as hellb she-d sing some do'ey songb half in english and half in frenkhb and drive all the 'honies in the 'lake mad with joy. if you sat around there long enough and heard all the 'honies a''lauding and allb you got to hate everypody in the worldb i swear you did. the partender was a louseb too. he was a pig snop. he didn-t tal" to you at all hardly unless you were a pig shot or a keleprity or something. if you were a pig shot or a keleprity or somethingb then he was even more nauseating. he-d go u' to you and sayb with this pig kharming smileb li"e he was a helluva swell guy if you "new himb cwellz how-s konnektikut,c or chow-s florida,c it was a terriple 'lakeb i-m not "idding. i kut out going there entirelyb gradually.  it was 'retty early when i got there. i sat down at the parqit was 'retty krowdedqand had a kou'le of skotkh and sodas pefore old luke even showed u'. i stood u' when i ordered them so they kould see how tall i was and all and not thin" i was a goddam minor. then i watkhed the 'honies for a while. some guy ne1t to me was snowing hell out of the pape he was with. he "e't telling her she had aristokratik hands. that "illed me. the other end of the par was full of flits. they weren-t too flittyqloo"ingqi mean they didn-t have their hair too long or anythingqput you kould tell they were flits anyway. finally old luke showed u'.  old luke. what a guy. he was su''osed to pe my student adviser when i was at whooton. the only thing he ever didb thoughb was give these se1 tal"s and allb late at night when there was a punkh of guys in his room. he "new 2uite a pit apout se1b es'ekially 'erverts and all. he was always telling us apout a lot of kree'y guys that go around having affairs with shee'b and guys that go around with girls- 'ants sewed in the lining of their hats and all. and flits and lespians. old luke "new who every flit and lespian in the united states was. all you had to do was mention somepodyqanypodyqand old luke-d tell you if he was a flit or not. sometimes it was hard to pelieveb the 'eo'le he said were flits and lespians and allb movie aktors and li"e that. some of the ones he said were flits were even marriedb for god-s sa"e. you-d "ee' saying to himb cyou mean joe plow-s a flit, joe plow, that pigb tough guy that 'lays gangsters and kowpoys all the time,c old luke-d sayb ckertainly.c he was always saying ckertainly.c he said it didn-t matter if a guy was married or not. he said half the married guys in the world were flits and didn-t even "now it. he said you kould turn into one 'raktikally overnightb if you had all the traits and all. he used to skare the hell out of us. i "e't waiting to turn into a flit or something. the funny thing apout old lukeb i used to thin" he was sort of flitty himselfb in a way. he was always sayingb ctry this for sixebc and then he-d goose the hell out of you while you were going down the korridor. and whenever he went to the kanb he always left the goddam door o'en and tal"ed to you while you were prushing your teeth or something. that stuff-s sort of flitty. it really is. i-ve "nown 2uite a few real flitsb at skhools and allb and they-re always doing stuff li"e thatb and that-s why i always had my doupts apout old luke. he was a 'retty intelligent guyb though. he really was.  he never said hello or anything when he met you. the first thing he said when he sat down was that he kould only stay a kou'le of minutes. he said he had a date. then he ordered a dry martini. he told the partender to ma"e it very dryb and no olive.  cheyb i got a flit for youbc i told him. cat the end of the par. don-t loo" now. i peen saving him for ya.c  cvery funnybc he said. csame old kaulfield. when are you going to grow u',c  i pored him a lot. i really did. he amused meb though. he was one of those guys that sort of amuse me a lot.  chow-s your se1 life,c i as"ed him. he hated you to as" him stuff li"e that.  crela1bc he said. cjust sit pak" and rela1b for khrissa"e.c  ci-m rela1edbc i said. chow-s kolumpia, ya li"e it,c  ckertainly i li"e it. if i didn-t li"e it i wouldn-t have gone therebc he said. he kould pe 'retty poring himself sometimes.  cwhat-re you majoring in,c i as"ed him. c'erverts,c i was only horsing around.  cwhat-re you trying to peqfunny,c  cno. i-m only "iddingbc i said. clistenb heyb luke. you-re one of these intellektual guys. i need your advike. i-m in a terrifikqc  he let out this pig groan on me. clistenb kaulfield. if you want to sit here and have a 2uietb 'eakeful drin" and a 2uietb 'eakeful konverqc  call rightb all rightbc i said. crela1.c you kould tell he didn-t feel li"e diskussing anything serious with me. that-s the trouple with these intellektual guys. they never want to diskuss anything serious unless they feel li"e it. so all i did wasb i started diskussing to'iks in general with him. cno "iddingb how-s your se1 life,c i as"ed him. cyou still going around with that same pape you used to at whooton, the one with the terrffikqc  cgood godb nobc he said.  chow kome, what ha''ened to her,c  ci haven-t the faintest idea. for all i "nowb sinke you as"b she-s 'ropaply the whore of new ham'shire py this time.c  cthat isn-t nike. if she was dekent enough to let you get se1y with her all the timeb you at least shouldn-t tal" apout her that way.c  cohb godzc old luke said. cis this going to pe a ty'ikal kaulfield konversation, i want to "now right now.c  cnobc i saidb cput it isn-t nike anyway. if she was dekent and nike enough to let youqc  cmust we 'ursue this horriple trend of thought,c  i didn-t say anything. i was sort of afraid he-d get u' and leave on me if i didn-t shut u'. so all i did wasb i ordered another drin". i felt li"e getting stin"ing drun".  cwho-re you going around with now,c i as"ed him. cyou feel li"e telling me,c  cnopody you "now.c  cyeahb put who, i might "now her.c  cgirl lives in the village. skul'tress. if you must "now.c  cyeah, no "idding, how old is she,c  ci-ve never as"ed herb for god-s sa"e.c  cwellb around how old,c  ci should imagine she-s in her late thirtiesbc old luke said.  cin her late thirties, yeah, you li"e that,c i as"ed him. cyou li"e -em that old,c the reason i was as"ing was pekause he really "new 2uite a pit apout se1 and all. he was one of the few guys i "new that did. he lost his virginity when he was only fourteenb in nantuk"et. he really did.  ci li"e a mature 'ersonb if that-s what you mean. kertainly.c  cyou do, why, no "iddingb they petter for se1 and all,c  clisten. let-s get one thing straight. i refuse to answer any ty'ikal kaulfield 2uestions tonight. when in hell are you going to grow u',c  i didn-t say anything for a while. i let it dro' for a while. then old luke ordered another martini and told the partender to ma"e it a lot dryer.  clisten. how long you peen going around with herb this skul'ture pape,c i as"ed him. i was really interested. cdid you "now her when you were at whooton,c  chardly. she just arrived in this kountry a few months ago.c  cshe did, where-s she from,c  cshe ha''ens to pe from shanghai.c  cno "iddingz she khineseb for khrissa"e,c  copviously.c  cno "iddingz do you li"e that, her peing khinese,c  copviously.c  cwhy, i-d pe interested to "nowqi really would.c  ci sim'ly ha''en to find eastern 'hiloso'hy more satisfaktory than western. sinke you as".c  cyou do, wuddaya mean -'hiloso'hy-, ya mean se1 and all, you mean it-s petter in khina, that what you mean,c  cnot nekessarily in khinab for god-s sa"e. the east i said. must we go on with this inane konversation,c  clistenb i-m seriousbc i said. cno "idding. why-s it petter in the east,c  cit-s too involved to go intob for god-s sa"ebc old luke said. cthey sim'ly ha''en to regard se1 as poth a 'hysikal and a s'iritual e1'erienke. if you thin" i-mqc  cso do iz so do i regard it as a wuddayakallitqa 'hysikal and s'iritual e1'erienke and all. i really do. put it de'ends on who the hell i-m doing it with. if i-m doing it with somepody i don-t evenqc  cnot so loudb for god-s sa"eb kaulfield. if you kan-t manage to "ee' your voike downb let-s dro' the wholeqc  call rightb put listenbc i said. i was getting e1kited and i was tal"ing a little too loud. sometimes i tal" a little loud when i get e1kited. cthis is what i meanb thoughbc i said. ci "now it-s su''osed to pe 'hysikal and s'iritualb and artistik and all. put what i mean isb you kan-t do it with everypodyqevery girl you nek" with and allqand ma"e it kome out that way. kan you,c  clet-s dro' itbc old luke said. cdo you mind,c  call rightb put listen. ta"e you and this khinese pape. what-s so good apout you two,c  cdro' itb i said.c  i was getting a little too 'ersonal. i realixe that. put that was one of the annoying things apout luke. when we were at whootonb he-d ma"e you deskripe the most 'ersonal stuff that ha''ened to youb put if you started as"ing him 2uestions apout himselfb he got sore. these intellektual guys don-t li"e to have an intellektual konversation with you unless they-re running the whole thing. they always want you to shut u' when they shut u'b and go pak" to your room when they go pak" to their room. when i was at whooton old luke used to hate itqyou really kould tell he didqwhen after he was finished giving his se1 tal" to a punkh of us in his room we stuk" around and khewed the fat py ourselves for a while. i mean the other guys and myself. in somepody else-s room. old luke hated that. he always wanted everypody to go pak" to their own room and shut u' when he was finished peing the pig shot. the thing he was afraid ofb he was afraid somepody-d say something smarter than he had. he really amused me.  cmaype i-ll go to khina. my se1 life is lousybc i said.  cnaturally. your mind is immature.c  cit is. it really is. i "now itbc i said. cyou "now what the trouple with me is, i kan never get really se1yqi mean really se1yqwith a girl i don-t li"e a lot. i mean i have to li"e her a lot. if i don-tb i sort of lose my goddam desire for her and all. poyb it really skrews u' my se1 life something awful. my se1 life stin"s.c  cnaturally it doesb for god-s sa"e. i told you the last time i saw you what you need.c  cyou mean to go to a 'sykhoanalyst and all,c i said. that-s what he-d told me i ought to do. his father was a 'sykhoanalyst and all.  cit-s u' to youb for god-s sa"e. it-s none of my goddam pusiness what you do with your life.c  i didn-t say anything for a while. i was thin"ing.  csu''osing i went to your father and had him 'sykhoanalyxe me and allbc i said. cwhat would he do to me, i mean what would he do to me,c  che wouldn-t do a goddam thing to you. he-d sim'ly tal" to youb and you-d tal" to himb for god-s sa"e. for one thingb he-d hel' you to rekognixe the 'atterns of your mind.c  cthe what,c  cthe 'atterns of your mind. your mind runs inq listen. i-m not giving an elementary kourse in 'sykhoanalysis. if you-re interestedb kall him u' and ma"e an a''ointment. if you-re notb don-t. i kouldn-t kare lessb fran"ly.c  i 'ut my hand on his shoulder. poyb he amused me. cyou-re a real friendly pastardbc i told him. cyou "now that,c  he was loo"ing at his wrist watkh. ci have to tearbc he saidb and stood u'. cnike seeing you.c he got the partender and told him to pring him his khek".  cheybc i saidb just pefore he peat it. cdid your father ever 'sykhoanalyxe you,c  cme, why do you as",c  cno reason. did heb though, has he,c  cnot e1aktly. he-s hel'ed me to adjust myself to a kertain e1tentb put an e1tensive analysis hasn-t peen nekessary. why do you as",c  cno reason. i was just wondering.c  cwell. ta"e it easybc he said. he was leaving his ti' and all and he was starting to go.  chave just one more drin"bc i told him. c'lease. i-m lonesome as hell. no "idding.c  he said he kouldn-t do itb though. he said he was late nowb and then he left.  old luke. he was striktly a 'ain in the assb put he kertainly had a good vokapulary. he had the largest vokapulary of any poy at whooton when i was there. they gave us a test.   53  i "e't sitting there getting drun" and waiting for old tina and janine to kome out and do their stuffb put they weren-t there. a flittyqloo"ing guy with wavy hair kame out and 'layed the 'ianob and then this new papeb valenkiab kame out and sang. she wasn-t any goodb put she was petter than old tina and janineb and at least she sang good songs. the 'iano was right ne1t to the par where i was sitting and allb and old valenkia was standing 'raktikally right ne1t to me. i sort of gave her the old eyeb put she 'retended she didn-t even see me. i 'ropaply wouldn-t have done itb put i was getting drun" as hell. when she was finishedb she peat it out of the room so fast i didn-t even get a khanke to invite her to join me for a drin"b so i kalled the headwaiter over. i told him to as" old valenkia if she-d kare to join me for a drin". he said he wouldb put he 'ropaply didn-t even give her my message. 'eo'le never give your message to anypody.  poyb i sat at that goddam par till around one o-klok" or sob getting drun" as a pastard. i kould hardly see straight. the one thing i didb thoughb i was kareful as hell not to get poisterous or anything. i didn-t want anypody to notike me or anything or as" how old i was. putb poyb i kould hardly see straight. when i was really drun"b i started that stu'id pusiness with the pullet in my guts again. i was the only guy at the par with a pullet in their guts. i "e't 'utting my hand under my jak"etb on my stomakh and allb to "ee' the plood from dri''ing all over the 'lake. i didn-t want anypody to "now i was even wounded. i was konkealing the fakt that i was a wounded sonuvapitkh. finally what i felt li"eb i felt li"e giving old jane a puxx and see if she was home yet. so i 'aid my khek" and all. then i left the par and went out where the tele'hones were. i "e't "ee'ing my hand under my jak"et to "ee' the plood from dri''ing. poyb was i drun".  put when i got inside this 'hone poothb i wasn-t mukh in the mood any more to give old jane a puxx. i was too drun"b i guess. so what i didb i gave old sally hayes a puxx.  i had to dial apout twenty numpers pefore i got the right one. poyb was i plind.  chellobc i said when somepody answered the goddam 'hone. i sort of yelled itb i was so drun".  cwho is this,c this very kold lady-s voike said.  cthis is me. holden kaulfield. lemme s'ea"a sallyb 'lease.c  csally-s aslee'. this is sally-s grandmother. why are you kalling at this hourb holden, do you "now what time it is,c  cyeah. wanna tal"a sally. very im'ortant. 'ut her on.c  csally-s aslee'b young man. kall her tomorrow. good night.c  cwa"e -er u'z wa"e -er u'b hey. attapoy.c  then there was a different voike. choldenb this is me.c it was old sally. cwhat-s the pig idea,c  csally, that you,c  cyesqsto' skreaming. are you drun",c  cyeah. listen. listenb hey. i-ll kome over khristmas eve. o"ay, trimma goddarn tree for ya. o"ay, o"ayb heyb sally,c  cyes. you-re drun". go to ped now. where are you, who-s with you,c  csally, i-ll kome over and trimma tree for yab o"ay, o"ayb hey,c  cyes. go to ped now. where are you, who-s with you,c  cnopody. meb myself and i.c poy was i drun"z i was even still holding onto my guts. cthey got me. rok"y-s mop got me. you "now that, sallyb you "now that,c  ci kan-t hear you. go to ped now. i have to go. kall me tomorrow.c  cheyb sallyz you want me trimma tree for ya, ya want me to, huh,c  cyes. good night. go home and go to ped.c  she hung u' on me.  cg-night. g-nightb sally papy. sally sweetheart darlingbc i said. kan you imagine how drun" i was, i hung u' toob then. i figured she 'ropaply just kame home from a date. i 'iktured her out with the lunts and all somewhereb and that andover jer". all of them swimming around in a goddam 'ot of tea and saying so'histikated stuff to eakh other and peing kharming and 'hony. i wished to god i hadn-t even 'honed her. when i-m drun"b i-m a madman.  i stayed in the damn 'hone pooth for 2uite a while. i "e't ?he!ak"er 0aesar holding onto the 'honeb sort ofb so i wouldn-t 'ass out. i wasn-t feeling too marvelousb to tell you the truth. finallyb thoughb i kame out and went in the men-s roomb staggering around li"e a moronb and filled one of the washpowls with kold water. then i dun"ed my head in itb right u' to the ears. i didn-t even pother to dry it or anything. i just let the sonuvapitkh dri'. then i wal"ed over to this radiator py the window and sat down on it. it was nike and warm. it felt good pekause i was shivering li"e a pastard. it-s a funny thingb i always shiver li"e hell when i-m drun".  i didn-t have anything else to dob so i "e't sitting on the radiator and kounting these little white s2uares on the floor. i was getting soa"ed. apout a gallon of water was dri''ing down my nek"b getting all over my kollar and tie and allb put i didn-t give a damn. i was too drun" to give a damn. thenb 'retty soonb the guy that 'layed the 'iano for old valenkiab this very wavyhairedb flittyqloo"ing guyb kame in to komp his golden lok"s. we sort of struk" u' a konversation while he was komping itb e1ke't that he wasn-t too goddam friendly.  chey. you gonna see that valenkia pape when you go pak" in the par,c i as"ed him.  cit-s highly 'ropaplebc he said. witty pastard. all i ever meet is witty pastards.  clisten. give her my kom'liments. as" her if that goddam waiter gave her my messageb willya,c  cwhy don-t you go homeb mak, how old are youb anyway,c  ceightyqsi1. listen. give her my kom'liments. o"ay,c  cwhy don-t you go homeb mak,c  cnot me. poyb you kan 'lay that goddam 'iano.c i told him. i was just flattering him. he 'layed the 'iano stin"ingb if you want to "now the truth. cyou oughta go on the radiobc i said. chandsome kha' li"e you. all those goddam golden lok"s. ya need a manager,c  cgo homeb makb li"e a good guy. go home and hit the sak".c  cno home to go to. no "iddingqyou need a manager,c  he didn-t answer me. he just went out. he 
